
The B-52 is a long-range, heavy bomber that can perform a variety of missions. The bomber is capable of flying at high subsonic speeds at altitudes up to 50,000 feet. It can carry nuclear or precision guided conventional ordnance with worldwide precision navigation capability.
The X-51A Waverider flew its fourth and final mission May 1 over the Point Mugu Naval Air Warfare Center Sea Range, during which the test team achieved a record- setting 210 seconds of air-breathing hypersonic flight. Flight testers from Edwards played a vital role in the program's success. (U.S. Air Force Photo by Bobbi Zapka)
A B-52H Stratofortress flies over Minot Air Force Base, N.D., during a training exercise. In a conventional conflict, the B-52H can perform strategic attack, close-air support, air interdiction, offensive counter-air and maritime operations. (U.S. Air Force photo/Senior Airman Brittany Y. Auld)
A B-52H Stratofortress flies during exercise Cope North 15, Feb. 17, 2015, off the coast of Guam. During the exercise, the U.S., Japan and Australia air forces worked on developing combat capabilities enhancing air superiority, electronic warfare, air interdiction, tactical airlift and aerial refueling. The B-52H is assigned to the 96th Expeditionary Bomb Squadron. (U.S. Air Force photo/Tech. Sgt. Jason Robertson)
U.S. Air Force B-52 Stratofortress aircraft from Barksdale Air Force Base, La., arrived at Al Udeid Air Base, Qatar, April 9, 2016 in support of Operation Inherent Resolve, the operation to eliminate the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant and the threat they pose to Iraq, Syria and the wider international community, and as needed in the region. The B-52 offers diverse capabilities including the delivery of precision weapons. (U.S. Air Force photo/Tech. Sgt. Nathan Lipscomb)
A B-52H Stratofortress prepares to receive fuel from a KC-135 Stratotanker while flying over the United Kingdom. The B-52H was deployed to RAF Fairford, England, from Barksdale Air Force Base, La. (U.S. Air Force photo/Senior Airman Christine Griffiths)
A B-52 Stratofortress from Barksdale Air Force Base, La., receives fuel from a KC-135 Stratotanker assigned to Royal Air Force Mildenhall, England, over the Trøndelag region of Norway, while participating in exercise Cold Response. The exercise featured maritime, land, and air operations to underscore NATO’s ability to defend against any threat in any environment. (U.S. Air Force photo/Senior Airman Victoria H. Taylor)
Airmen of the 2nd Maintenance Squadron wash a B-52H Stratofortress during phase maintenance process at Barksdale Air Force Base, La. (U.S. Air Force photo/Staff Sgt. Jonathan Snyder/3rd Combat Camera Squadron)
Capt. Zachary Proano, a radar navigator with the 23rd Bomb Squadron, flies a live ordnance training mission in a B-52H Stratofortress over the Nevada Test and Training Range, Nev. (U.S. Air Force photo/Staff Sgt. Jonathan Snyder)
Capt. Greg Lepper, a navigator with the 96th Bomb Squadron, checks instruments in a B-52 Stratofortress while flying over Fort Polk, La., during Green Flag-East 2013. Green Flag-East is designed to train participants for deployment. (U.S. Air Force photo/Staff Sgt. Jonathan Snyder)
Maj. Chris Weir, left, and Capt. Greg Lepper, 96th Bomb Squadron B-52H Stratofortress navigators, navigate a B-52 during a Green Flag-East training mission over Fort Polk, La., Aug. 21, 2013. GF-E is a realistic air-land integration combat training exercise meant to replicate deployed warfare conditions.(U.S. Air Force photo by Staff Sgt. Jonathan Synder)
A U.S. Air Force B-52 Stratofortress from the 20th Expeditionary Bomb Squadron at Barksdale Air Force Base, La., leads a formation of two F-16 Fighting Falcons from the 18th Aggressor Squadron, Eielson AFB, Alaska; two Japan Air Self-Defense Force F-2 fighters from the 6th Tactical Fighter Squadron, Tsuiki Air Base, Japan; two U.S. Navy EA-6B Prowlers from Electronic Attack Squadron 136, Carrier Air Wing 5, Naval Air Facility Atsugi, Japan; and a JASDF E-2C Hawkeye from the 601st Squadron, Misawa Air Base, Japan, over Guam during exercise Cope North. The Air Force and JASDF conduct Cope North annually at Andersen Air Force Base, Guam, to increase combat readiness and interoperability. (U.S. Air Force photo/Staff Sgt. Jacob N. Bailey)
Capt. Joshua Logie walks away from a B-52 Stratofortress at Andersen Air Force Base, Guam, after a mission in support of exercise Cope North. The Air Force and the Japanese Air Self-Defense Force conduct Cope North annually to increase combat readiness and interoperability, concentrating on coordination and the evaluation of air tactics, techniques and procedures. (U.S. Air Force photo/Staff Sgt. Jacob N. Bailey)


A B-52H Stratofortress prepares to receive fuel from a KC-135 Stratotanker while flying over the United Kingdom. The B-52H was deployed to RAF Fairford, England, from Barksdale Air Force Base, La. (U.S. Air Force photo/Senior Airman Christine Griffiths)Photo Details/Download Hi-Res
A B-52H Stratofortress prepares to receive fuel from a KC-135 Stratotanker while flying over the United Kingdom. The B-52H was deployed to RAF Fairford, England, from Barksdale Air Force Base, La. (U.S. Air Force photo/Senior Airman Christine Griffiths)
Born of specifications for a new heavy bomber presented by Air Materiel Command in 1945, the first iteration of what would become the B-522, was the Boeing 464-40 created in 1946. This airframe was powered by turboprop engines, as jet engines were not yet seen as reliable or fuel efficient enough for long- range missions.
As development continued through the end of the decade, the project became the keystone for the fledgling U.S. Air Force’s Strategic Air Command under the direction of Gen. Curtis LeMay. At his insistence, the XB-52 and YB-52, which had more operational equipment, featured 35-degree swept wings with eight Westinghouse turbojet engines.
The YB-52 first took flight in April 1952 and subsequent ground and flight testing lead the Air Force to order 282 of the new heavy bombers, beginning with the delivery of three B-52As and 10 B-52Bs by 1954.
During the rollout ceremony, Air Force Chief of Staff Gen. Nathan Twining described the B-52 as “the long-rifle of the air age.”
The B-52 has since received many upgrades to communications, electronics, computing and avionics on the flight deck, as well as engines, fuel capacity and the weapons bay. These upgrades enable the B-52H to integrate into the new digital battlefield and precisely deliver a large array of weapons, from conventional, nuclear and smart bombs to conventional or nuclear cruise missiles, on targets anywhere in the world.
The use of aerial refueling gives the B-52 a range limited only by crew endurance.
Further development included a reconnaissance variant, as well as a model used as a launch platform for 93 NASA X-15 missions to explore the boundaries of space. A B-52H is currently used for launching other research vehicles by NASA’s Dryden Flight Research Center in California.
A total of 744 B-52s were built with the last, a B-52H, delivered in October 1962.
A B-52H Stratofortress flies over Minot Air Force Base, N.D., during a training exercise. In a conventional conflict, the B-52H can perform strategic attack, close-air support, air interdiction, offensive counter-air and maritime operations. (U.S. Air Force photo/Senior Airman Brittany Y. Auld)Photo Details/Download Hi-Res
A B-52H Stratofortress flies over Minot Air Force Base, N.D., during a training exercise. In a conventional conflict, the B-52H can perform strategic attack, close-air support, air interdiction, offensive counter-air and maritime operations. (U.S. Air Force photo/Senior Airman Brittany Y. Auld)
In a conventional conflict, the B-52 can perform strategic attack, close-air support, air interdiction, offensive counter-air and maritime operations.
Throughout the Cold War, B-52s were a cornerstone of the Nuclear Triad, which was comprised of nuclear missile submarines, Intercontinental Ballistic Missiles and bombers capable of delivering nuclear bombs.
Throughout the Cold War B-52s were continuously airborne on alert patrols armed with nuclear weapons should hostilities erupt with the Soviet Union. These missions ended in 1991.
During the Vietnam War, beginning with Operations Arc Light and Rolling Thunder in 1965 and concluding with Operations Linebacker and Linebacker II in 1972, B-52s carried out various bombing campaigns.
During Operation Desert Storm in 1991, B-52s flew over 1500 sorties and delivered 40 percent of all the weapons dropped by coalition forces. They struck wide-area troop concentrations, fixed installations and bunkers, and decimated the morale of Iraq’s Republican Guard.
They also bombed targets in Yugoslavia during Operation Allied Force in 1999 and Operations Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan in 2001 and Iraqi Freedom in 2003, providing close air support through the use of precision guided munitions. They have most recently engaged in missions against ISIL targets in Syria as part of Operation Inherent Resolve.
All B-52s can be equipped with electro-optical viewing sensors, a forward-looking infrared (FLIR) and advanced targeting pods to augment targeting, battle assessment, and flight safety, further improving its combat ability, day or night and in varying weather conditions utilizing a variety of standoff weapons, such as laser-guided bombs, conventional bombs and GPS-guided weapons.
Capt. Joshua Logie walks away from a B-52 Stratofortress at Andersen Air Force Base, Guam, after a mission in support of exercise Cope North. The Air Force and the Japanese Air Self-Defense Force conduct Cope North annually to increase combat readiness and interoperability, concentrating on coordination and the evaluation of air tactics, techniques and procedures. (U.S. Air Force photo/Staff Sgt. Jacob N. Bailey)Photo Details/Download Hi-Res
Capt. Joshua Logie walks away from a B-52 Stratofortress at Andersen Air Force Base, Guam, after a mission in support of exercise Cope North. The Air Force and the Japanese Air Self-Defense Force conduct Cope North annually to increase combat readiness and interoperability, concentrating on coordination and the evaluation of air tactics, techniques and procedures. (U.S. Air Force photo/Staff Sgt. Jacob N. Bailey)
The B-52 is capable of dropping or launching the widest array of weapons in the U.S. inventory, including gravity bombs, cluster bombs, precision guided missiles and joint direct attack munitions.
Current engineering analyses show the B-52’s life span to extend beyond the year 2040.
B-52s also assist the Navy in ocean surveillance.
The lower deck crew of the B-52, the navigator and radar navigator, eject downward.
In 1972, a B-52 tail-gunner, Albert Moore, shot down a MiG-21 over Vietnam. It was the last recorded bomber-gunner to shoot down an enemy aircraft.
The X-51A Waverider flew its fourth and final mission May 1 over the Point Mugu Naval Air Warfare Center Sea Range, during which the test team achieved a record- setting 210 seconds of air-breathing hypersonic flight. Flight testers from Edwards played a vital role in the program's success. (U.S. Air Force Photo by Bobbi Zapka)Photo Details/Download Hi-Res
The X-51A Waverider flew its fourth and final mission May 1 over the Point Mugu Naval Air Warfare Center Sea Range, during which the test team achieved a record- setting 210 seconds of air-breathing hypersonic flight. Flight testers from Edwards played a vital role in the program's success. (U.S. Air Force Photo by Bobbi Zapka)
Primary function: Heavy bomber
Contractor: Boeing Military Airplane Co.
Power plant: Eight Pratt & Whitney engines TF33-P-3/103 turbofan
Thrust: Each engine up to 17,000 pounds
Wingspan: 185 feet (56.4 meters)
Length: 159 feet, 4 inches (48.5 meters)
Height: 40 feet, 8 inches (12.4 meters)
Weight: Approximately 185,000 pounds (83,250 kilograms)
Maximum takeoff weight: 488,000 pounds (219,600 kilograms)
Fuel capacity: 312,197 pounds (141,610 kilograms)
Payload: 70,000 pounds (31,500 kilograms)
Speed: 650 miles per hour (Mach 0.84)
Range: 8,800 miles (7,652 nautical miles)
Ceiling: 50,000 feet (15,151.5 meters)
Armament: Approximately 70,000 pounds (31,500 kilograms) mixed ordnance: bombs, mines and missiles. (Modified to carry air-launched cruise missiles)
Crew: five (aircraft commander, pilot, radar navigator, navigator and electronic warfare officer)
Unit cost: $84 million (fiscal 2012 constant dollars)
Initial operating capability: April 1952
Inventory: Active force, 58; ANG, 0; Reserve, 18
(Current as of December 2015)U.S. Air Force Logo
The Debrief: Weather and Contested Logistics
Global Exercises and Interoperability
Contested Logistics and Space Sustainment
Logistics on the Attack
Focus on AI Research and Development
The AI Test Force
Pushing the Envelope: AI's Evolution in Cyber Security
At Altitude: Col. Tucker Hamilton
BLUE: The Call to Change
Forging a Foundation: Basic Military Training
Recruiting a Path Forward
At Altitude: Brig. Gen. Christopher Amrhein-AFRS
Line of Effort: Mission Readiness
Line of Effort: Modernization
Line of Effort: Allies and Partners
Line of Effort: Taking Care of Our People
BLUE: Climate Action Plan
Into the future skies: The modernization throughout the Pacific
Growing tomorrow's leaders today
Virtual Reality reduces fuel emissions
Efficiency with modern materials
Senior Enlisted Advisor to the Chairman: Ramón “CZ” Colón-Lópe
Readiness through research
At Altitude: AF Chief Scientist Victoria Coleman
Researching human performance
Experimental mechanical engineering
Innovation in flight testing
At Altitude: CMSAF JoAnne Bass
Resilience: The glue of the forces
Resiliency Research Task Force studies issues affecting Airmen
True North clinic and caring for military training instructors
Unexpected mental health challenges
Challenges being in a new environment
FYSA: Bridging the Science Gap
STEM Initiatives
Grant program promotes innovator culture for DAF scientists
STEM professionals find diverse experiences, career opportunities in Project ARC
Airframe: B-21 Raider
Inter-American Allies
Command Interview: Gen. Jacqueline Van Ovost, USTRANSCOM
Dr. Victoria Coleman, Air Force Chief Scientist
Command Interview: Dr. Julie LaRow, AF Resilience
Airframe: MH-139A Grey Wolf
Command Interview: AF Chief Scientist Dr. Victoria Coleman
Inter-American Partnerships
Airman Aerials 2022
AMTU Eases Medical Process
Airframe: HC-130J Combat King II
Col. Jeff Pixley: The Evolution of BMT
DAF-MIT AI Accelerator
Emotional Intelligence Leads The Way Forward
Thunderbirds Laid To Rest; Legacy Lives On
AFSOC: A New Generation
Technology: Improving The Future Installation
We Train Like We Fight
Pushing The Envelope: Catalyzing Change
Engineering Future Leaders
Airframe: KC-10 Extender
Future Technology for Maintenance Now
The Debrief: Installation Proving Ground
Honoring The Candy Bomber
Future-proofing Installations
Airframe: MQ-9 Reaper
FYSA Podcast: Change Agents
Airframe: E-8C Joint STARS
At Altitude Podcast: Lt. Gen. James Slife / AFSOC
The Debrief Podcast: Hsu Innovation Institute
AFSOC Shifts Gears
Innovative Airmen Build Community
Human Capital
Airman Aerials 2021
Chuck Yeager's Lasting Legacy
Finely-Tuned, Hyper-Focused
Lt. Gen. Jim Slife and the AFSOC we need
FYSA: Agility Prime
At Altitude Podcast: Brig. Gen. Jeffery D. Valenzia and ABMS
FYSA with SECAF Frank Kendall
The Debrief Podcast: Artificial Intelligence
Under Secretary Jones preparing for pacing challenge, prioritizing potential
Focused on strategic competition, Air Force Secretary Kendall confident “One Team, One Fight” will lead to success
FYSA: Game On!
Hypersonics: Adding Speed to the Quiver
Dr. Mark Lewis: Hypersonics and The Need For Speed
The Debrief Podcast: Women's Initiative Team
Women's Initiative Team : Taking Initiative, Breaking Barriers
Valenzia: ABMS Will Deliver the "Decision Advantage"
Disruptive Technology: The Quantum Frontier
Airframe: The F-35A Lightning II
Virtual Aggression - Real World Response
21st Century Recruiting Maj. Gen. Thomas
Preparing For A Storm
Airframe: The F-117 Nighthawk
Negative for COVID
A Natural Partnership
21st Century Deterrence
A Case for Space
PODCAST: Maj. Gen. Thomas, AFRS
The New Normal
Commanding Crew-1
B-52: Global Strike Workhorse
Learning Some Cold Truths
Failing Forward
PODCAST: Maj. Gen. Higby
CMSAF Wright Looks Back
An Airman: First, Last, Always
Arctic Strategy Unveiled
PODCAST: Brig. Gen. Melancon
The Future Is Now
The A.I. Advantage
Everybody Looks Up
Red, White and Blast-Off
Mitigating Vulnerability
Answering the Call
Developing Resiliency
Last of the Raiders
The Disease Detectives
Sustaining Operations
Great Power Competition
Managing the Future Talent
Sustainable Competition
Toxic Leadership
Leadership Playground
Leader of the Pack
Training Revolution
Reconstructing Tyndall
Research, Acquire, Sustain, Repeat
Foundation for Arctic Security
Northern Vision
Arctic Challenge
25th SecAF Barbara Barrett - The First Interview
Engaging the Arctic
Based In Trust
Built From Scratch
Air Base 201
PODCAST: ASAF Henderson
Maintaining Success
Maintenance Solutions
Closing the Gap
Squadrons 'Beating Heart' of the Air Force
Guarding the Nation's Skies
Faces on the Hill
Building A Power Base
Gateway To Readiness
At Close Range
Looking Down Range
The New Deterrent
PODCAST: Civil Air Patrol
Airframe: The CV-22 Osprey
Operational Impact
Stewards of the Land
The Wright Stuff
SecAF Heather Wilson
Hacking Acquisitions
The Beyond
PODCAST: Dr. Will Roper
Character Takes Flight
Talent and Total Force
Effective Risk
Airframe: The B-17 Flying Fortress
Airframe: The Stearman Kaydet
Open Code
Time is of the Essence
Special Operations
Sustaining Balance
Airframe: The T-6A Texan II
Serving, Saving, Shaping
Airframe: The B-2 Spirit
Herding Health
21st Century Air National Guard
Airframe: The F-35A Lightning II
Persistent Engagement
Out of the Box
Airframe: The HH-60G Pave Hawk
Changing the Story
Joint Investigation
Flying Sergeants
The Agile 99th
Redefining History
Big Solutions From Small Places
The Lever of Culture
The Flying First
Sweet Taste of Freedom
Airframe: The T-38 Talon
Everybody's War
Squadrons 'Beating Heart' of the Air Force
Airframe: The KC-135 Stratotanker
Thawing the Middle
Airman To Be Awarded Medal Of Honor
In Perpetual Mission
Airframe: The C-5 Galaxy
Stop The Bleed, Save A Life
Finding Answers
Power Conductor
Speed and Fusion
Airframe: The EC-130H Compass Call
Staying On Track
Target Acquired
Airframe: The B-1B Lancer
Byte-Size Learning
Icon of Airmanship
U.S. Air Force Chief Scientist
Advancing At The Speed Of Relevance
Airframe: The B-52H Stratofortress
No Detail Too Small
The Disease Detectives
Forecasting Success
Citizen Cyber
Airframe: The C-17 Globemaster III
Care in the Air
Initial Defense
Pilot Exchange
Airframe: The F-16 Fighting Falcon
MAFFS Activate
The State of U.S. Strategic Command
Meet Under Secretary of the Air Force Matthew Donovan
Airframe: The E-3 Sentry (AWACS)
Airframe: The AC-130 Gunship
Where the Sun Never Sets
Firing Up the Force
Formation of Friendship
Airframe: The A-10 Thunderbolt II
Bombs Away
Pocketsize Multiplier
Providing Reinforcement
Airframe: The F-22 Raptor
A View from the Pacific
Creating Synthetic Teammates
Optimizing the Data Loop
Airframe: The F-15 Eagle
Higher Ground
Global Already There
AFOTEC Approved
Polar Airlift
Airframe: The U-2 Dragon Lady
An Innovative Collaborative
Care Loop
Orbital Airmen
Airframe: The SR-71 Blackbird
Battlefield Game Changer
Airframe: The F-35A Lightning II
No English, No Problem
The First Interview
Top Guns
ACC Flight Plan
The Night Watchmen
Guarding the Skies
Partner Airlift
Insatiable Demand
Priority Maintenance
Faces of Deterrence
Special Dedication
Pulling Ahead
The State of Air Force Medicine
Charged Up
Partners In Sight
Cadet Falconers Take Flight
F-4 Flies for Final Time
Farewell to the Chief
Signal Strength
A Beneficial Development
Recipe For Success
A Mighty Display of Democracy
The Aircraft Canaries
Island Sentinels
Atomic Exposure
Eyewitness To Infamy
Capturing Space
Point Of Recovery
Avoiding the Last Step
The Aggressors
Daily Deployed
Acquire, Assess, Exploit
Meals Readily Explained
Down the Hatch
Solo Mission
Whispers of Another War
Bonjour, Mon Nom Est...
Final Mission
Mental Warfare
Embrace the Paste
Boiling Point
Original Air Force One
Arctic Vigil
Farewell to the Force
The Man-Machine Interface
The Swat Team
Finding Closure
From Cradle To Space
Comfort in the Cold
House Of Pain
A Fighting Raven
Formation of a Legacy
Struck By The Thunderbolt
The Perfect Storm
A Solemn Mission
Remembering "Tack"
Aspiring To New Heights
Beyond the Blast Doors
Blood, Sweat, Perfection
An Original Rosie
Missing In America
"They Call Me Legend"
The Code
Forever An Airman
Forward From Vietnam
Digging For Answers
Behind the Hat
Santa By C-130
Civil War Moments
From Beyond the Flames
Hang In There
One Step Forward
Going Beyond
The Human Weapon
The Perfect Edge
The Hands Of Time
Standing in the Door
Lightning Strike
From the Ground Up
A Spartan Death
World-class Cyclist
3-2-1 Contact
Ties That Bind
Rescue Reunion
Trauma To Triumph
The 400
Hurricane Warning
'Katrina Girl' Found
A Look Back
C-17 Health Care
Aim High
Together
The Path
Military Brothers
Students of Fire
Mr. P
Bird's Eye View
Horseback Security
Finally Home
Frozen Tundra Warriors
Taking a Load Off
Standing Up
Full Steam Ahead
Maintaining Red Flag
Crossing Country Line
Press On
Taking It to the Woods
Best Friends
Rolling Thunder
Heavens to Betsy
Strong Survivor
Coaching Giant
Foreign Exchange
Cool School
Impossible Rescue
Quality Breeding
Common Ground
Spiritual Maintenance
The U.S. Space Force is pioneering advancements in space sustainment to enhance satellite durability and functionality in hostile environments.
As the U.S. Air Force confronts a new great power competition with near-peer adversaries, Airmen and Guardians are implementing future-focused strategies informed by institutional knowledge.
In this episode of ‘The Debrief,’ Lt. Gen. Tom Miller, deputy chief of staff for Logistics, Engineering and Force Protection and Col. Patrick Williams, the Air Force director of weather, explain the current security environment and weather Airmen’s role in Great Power Competition.
The Air Force is teaming up with the joint force, industry, academia, and allied/partner forces around the globe to stay ahead of near-peer competition.
Secretary of the Air Force, Frank Kendall, was flown by an autonomous X-62A VISTA, on May 2, 2024, at Edwards Air Force Base, California.
In the vast expanse of the digital frontier, where cutting-edge technology meets the demands of modern warfare, the United States Air Force stands at the forefront of innovation. Among its arsenal of advancements, artificial intelligence emerges as a pivotal force, shaping the future of aerial
Recent developments have markedly increased the scope of AI, enhancing tasks as routine as paperwork processing and as complex as the advancement of kinetic warfare technologies. The Air Force Test Center is at the forefront of the Air Force's exploration into AI and autonomy and leverages its vast
During the 2024 Air Force Association’s Warfare Symposium titled ‘Preparing for Conflict,’ Secretary of the Air Force Frank Kendall talked about the potential for a conflict with China or Russia during his opening remarks. This episode of ‘Pushing the Envelope’ explores how artificial intelligence
In this edition of BLUE, we take a look at how the Air Force is changing to meet the challenge of Reoptimizing for Great Power Competition. From how the service is structured to how service members will be trained and deployed, we examine what’s driving change, and how it impacts people.
Col. Tucker "Cinco" Hamilton, 96th Operations Group commander at Eglin AFB and Air Force AI test and operations chief, discusses the current state of AI within the Air Force, ongoing research, development and testing and AI’s place in building the force of the future.
As educational concepts and technology improve, it’s vital that the Air Force keeps up with the status quo to maximize the learning capability of its Airmen and set them up for success once they reach their operational units. To that end, Robinson has directed AETC to adapt and transition to a
Brig. Gen. Christopher Amrhein took over command of Air Force Recruiting Service in June of 2023 in the middle of the service's first recruiting shortfall in decades. Now he speaks to Airman magazine about changes needed to meet future recruiting goals.
Staff Sgt. Tori Glover, 319th Recruiting Squadron enlisted accessions active duty recruiter, talks on her experience as a recruiter and the challenges recruiters currently face.
The Air Force must recruit and retain the force we need to fly, fight, and win. Today’s Air Force answers our nation’s call with an experienced corps of full-time and part-time officers, enlisted Airmen, and civilians. We must transform those superb available forces into a force more fully capable
The Air Force must accelerate the modernization of key systems with an emphasis on the Department of the Air Force’s Operational Imperatives.
