
The Rockwell B-1 Lancer is a supersonic variable-sweep wing, heavy bomber used by the United States Air Force. It is commonly called the "Bone" (from "B-One"). It is one of three strategic bombers in the U.S. Air Force fleet as of 2018, the other two being the B-2 Spirit "Stealth Bomber", and the B-52 Stratofortress.

The B-1 was first envisioned in the 1960s as a platform that would combine the Mach 2 speed of the B-58 Hustler with the range and payload of the B-52, and would ultimately replace both bombers. After a long series of studies, Rockwell International (now part of Boeing) won the design contest for what emerged as the B-1A. This version had a top speed of Mach 2.2 at high altitude and the capability of flying for long distances at Mach 0.85 at very low altitudes. The combination of the high cost of the aircraft, the introduction of the AGM-86 cruise missile that flew the same basic profile, and early work on the stealth bomber all significantly affected the need for the B-1. This led to the program being canceled in 1977, after the B-1A prototypes had been built.
A KC-135 Stratotanker from Fairchild Air Force Base, Wash., refuels a B-1B Lancer during a training exercise over South Dakota. For more than 50 years the KC-135 has provided the core aerial refueling capability for the Air Force. The aircraft can travel up to 1,500 miles with 150,000 pounds of transfer fuel, which enables the Air Force to project rapid, flexible military power. (U.S. Air Force photo/Senior Airman Mary O'Dell/92nd Air Refueling Wing Public Affairs)
A B-1B Lancer assigned to the 28th Bomb Wing at Ellsworth Air Force Base, S.D., takes off on the first day of Red Flag 16-2 Feb. 29, 2016, at Nellis AFB, Nev. (U.S. Air Force photo/Airman First Class Keven Tanenbaum)
Lt. Col. Sloan Hollis maneuvers a B-1B Lancer bomber over Southern Afghanistan, Nov. 6, 2013. Hollis is a 379th Expeditionary Operations Support Squadron commander and pilot. (U.S. Air Force photo/Master Sgt. Ben Bloker)
A B1-B Lancer takes off for a mission during exercise Green Flag-West 13-02 at Nellis. The aircraft is assigned to the 28th Bomb Wing at Ellsworth. (U.S. Air Force photo/Val Gempis)
B-1B Lancer
(U.S. Air Force photo/Senior Airman Brian Ferguson)
The U.S. Air Force B-1B Lancer is the backbone of America's long-range bomber force participating in Red Flag 12-2 at Nellis Air Force Base, Nev.  (U.S. Air Force photo by Senior Airman Brett Clashman)
A U.S. Air Force B-1B Lancer taxis out before a training mission over the Nevada Test and Training Range during Red Flag 12-2 at Nellis Air Force Base, Nev.  (U.S. Air Force photo by Senior Airman Brett Clashman)
A U.S. Air Force B-1B Lancer departs for a training mission over the Nevada Test and Training Range during Red Flag 12-2 at Nellis Air Force Base, Nev. Red Flag is a combat training exercise involving the air forces of the United States and its allies. The exercise is hosted north of Las Vegas on the NTTR.
(U.S. Air Force photo by Senior Airman Brett Clashman)
A B-1 Lancer flies over the Norma Brown building during the 75th Diamond Anniversary ceremony on Goodfellow Air Force Base, Texas, Jan. 26, 2016. The B-1 flew over after a Vultee BT-15 Valient flew over. Both were symbolic; the vintage BT-15 represented the planes that Goodfellow pilots trained on, and the B-1 represented the intelligence support training the base now provides. (U.S. Air Force photo/Senior Airman Scott Jackson)
A B-1B Lancer takes off from Al Udeid Air Base, Qatar, to conduct combat operations April 8, 2015. Al Udeid is a strategic coalition air base in Qatar that supports over 90 combat and support aircraft and houses more than 5,000 military personnel. (U.S. Air Force photo/Senior Airman James Richardson)
U.S. Air Force Airmen from the 28th Aircraft Maintenance Squadron prepare for a B-1B Lancer to launch during the Red Flag combat training exercise at Nellis Air Force Base, Nev.  (U.S. Air Force photo by Staff Sgt. Christopher Hubenthal)
B-1B Lancer (U.S. Air Force photo/Master Sgt. Andy Dunaway)


A B-1B Lancer assigned to the 28th Bomb Wing at Ellsworth Air Force Base, S.D., takes off on the first day of Red Flag 16-2 Feb. 29, 2016, at Nellis AFB, Nev. (U.S. Air Force photo/Airman First Class Keven Tanenbaum)Photo Details/Download Hi-Res
A B-1B Lancer assigned to the 28th Bomb Wing at Ellsworth Air Force Base, S.D., takes off on the first day of Red Flag 16-2 Feb. 29, 2016, at Nellis AFB, Nev. (U.S. Air Force photo/Airman First Class Keven Tanenbaum)
The Air Force’s newly acquired B-52 Stratofortress hadn’t even taken off for it’s first flight before studies for its replacement began. Research started in the realm of a supersonic bomber resulting in the development of the B-58 Hustler and XB-70 Valkyrie in the late 50’s. Although cancelled, a joint NASA-U.S. Air Force flight research program continued to use the XB-70 prototypes, which were capable of reaching Mach 3.0, for research purposes into the late 60’s.
During that decade Air Force began to move away from developing high and fast bombers in favor of low-flying aircraft capable of penetrating enemy defenses.
In 1970 Rockwell International was awarded the contract to develop the B-1A, a new bomber capable of high efficiency cruising flight whether at subsonic speeds or at Mach 2.2. To meet all set mission requirements, such as takeoff and landing on runways shorter than those at established large bases, the B-1A was equipped with variable-sweep wings.
The first prototype flight occurred on December 23, 1974 and by the late 70’s four prototypes had been built, however, the program was canceled in 1977 before going into production.
Flight-testing of the prototypes continued through 1981 when, during the Reagan administration, the B-1 program was revived. For the B1-B, the Mach 2.2 number was dropped and the maximum speed limit set to about Mach 1.2 at high altitude due, in part, to changes from a variable air inlet to a fixed inlet. Other major changes included, an additional structure to increase payload to 74,000 pounds, an improved radar and reduction of the radar cross section.
The first production B-1 flew in October 1984, and the first B-1B was delivered to Dyess Air Force Base, Texas, in June 1985. Initial operational capability was achieved on Oct. 1, 1986. The final B-1B was delivered May 2, 1988.
The B-1B holds almost 50 world records for speed, payload, range, and time of climb in its class.
U.S. Air Force Airmen from the 28th Aircraft Maintenance Squadron prepare for a B-1B Lancer to launch during the Red Flag combat training exercise at Nellis Air Force Base, Nev.  (U.S. Air Force photo by Staff Sgt. Christopher Hubenthal)Photo Details/Download Hi-Res
U.S. Air Force Airmen from the 28th Aircraft Maintenance Squadron prepare for a B-1B Lancer to launch during the Red Flag combat training exercise at Nellis Air Force Base, Nev.  (U.S. Air Force photo by Staff Sgt. Christopher Hubenthal)
The B-1B was first used in combat in support of operations against Iraq during Operation Desert Fox in December 1998. In 1999, six B-1s were used in Yugoslavia during Operation Allied Force, delivering more than 20 percent of the total ordnance while flying less than 2 percent of the combat sorties.
During the first six months of Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan, eight B-1s dropped nearly 40 percent of the total tonnage delivered by coalition air forces. This included nearly 3,900 JDAMs, or 67 percent of the total. In Operation Iraqi Freedom, the aircraft flew less than 1 percent of the combat missions while delivering 43 percent of the JDAMs used. The B-1 continues to be deployed today, flying missions daily in support of continuing operations.
A B-1 Lancer flies over the Norma Brown building during the 75th Diamond Anniversary ceremony on Goodfellow Air Force Base, Texas, Jan. 26, 2016. The B-1 flew over after a Vultee BT-15 Valient flew over. Both were symbolic; the vintage BT-15 represented the planes that Goodfellow pilots trained on, and the B-1 represented the intelligence support training the base now provides. (U.S. Air Force photo/Senior Airman Scott Jackson)Photo Details/Download Hi-Res
A B-1 Lancer flies over the Norma Brown building during the 75th Diamond Anniversary ceremony on Goodfellow Air Force Base, Texas, Jan. 26, 2016. The B-1 flew over after a Vultee BT-15 Valient flew over. Both were symbolic; the vintage BT-15 represented the planes that Goodfellow pilots trained on, and the B-1 represented the intelligence support training the base now provides. (U.S. Air Force photo/Senior Airman Scott Jackson)
The 9th and 28th Bomb Squadrons, 7th Bomb Wing, and the 337th Test and Evaluation Squadron, Dyess AFB, Texas
34th and 37th Bomb Squadrons, 28th Bomb Wing, Ellsworth AFB, South Dakota

The B-1B is nicknamed “The Bone” due to the phonetic spelling of its model designation B-ONE.
The B-1B has flown 12,000-plus sorties since 2001 in Syria, Libya, Afghanistan and Iraq.
With it’s rapid deployment capability and long-range the B-1B can strike targets anywhere in the world from it’s home station.
B-1B Lancer (U.S. Air Force photo/Master Sgt. Andy Dunaway)Photo Details/Download Hi-Res
B-1B Lancer (U.S. Air Force photo/Master Sgt. Andy Dunaway)
Primary function:Long-range, multi-role, heavy bomber
Contractor:Boeing
Power plant:Four General Electric F101-GE-102 turbofan engines with afterburner
Thrust:30,000-plus pounds each engine
Wingspan:137 feet (41.8 meters) extended forward, 79 feet (24.1 meters) swept aft
Length:146 feet, (44.5 meters)
Height:34 feet (10.4 meters)
Payload:75,000 pounds Internal (34,019 kilograms)
Speed:900-plus mph (Mach 1 plus)
Ceiling:More than 30,000 feet (9,144 meters)
Armament:Approximately 75,000 pounds of mixed ordnance: bombs, mines and missiles
Crew:Four (aircraft commander, copilot, and two combat systems officers)
Unit Cost:$317 million
Initial operating capability:October 1986
Inventory:Active Duty, 62 (2 test); Air Force Reserve, 0; Air National Guard, 0U.S. Air Force Logo
The Debrief: Weather and Contested Logistics
Global Exercises and Interoperability
Contested Logistics and Space Sustainment
Logistics on the Attack
Focus on AI Research and Development
The AI Test Force
Pushing the Envelope: AI's Evolution in Cyber Security
At Altitude: Col. Tucker Hamilton
BLUE: The Call to Change
Forging a Foundation: Basic Military Training
Recruiting a Path Forward
At Altitude: Brig. Gen. Christopher Amrhein-AFRS
Line of Effort: Mission Readiness
Line of Effort: Modernization
Line of Effort: Allies and Partners
Line of Effort: Taking Care of Our People
BLUE: Climate Action Plan
Into the future skies: The modernization throughout the Pacific
Growing tomorrow's leaders today
Virtual Reality reduces fuel emissions
Efficiency with modern materials
Senior Enlisted Advisor to the Chairman: Ramón “CZ” Colón-Lópe
Readiness through research
At Altitude: AF Chief Scientist Victoria Coleman
Researching human performance
Experimental mechanical engineering
Innovation in flight testing
At Altitude: CMSAF JoAnne Bass
Resilience: The glue of the forces
Resiliency Research Task Force studies issues affecting Airmen
True North clinic and caring for military training instructors
Unexpected mental health challenges
Challenges being in a new environment
FYSA: Bridging the Science Gap
STEM Initiatives
Grant program promotes innovator culture for DAF scientists
STEM professionals find diverse experiences, career opportunities in Project ARC
Airframe: B-21 Raider
Inter-American Allies
Command Interview: Gen. Jacqueline Van Ovost, USTRANSCOM
Dr. Victoria Coleman, Air Force Chief Scientist
Command Interview: Dr. Julie LaRow, AF Resilience
Airframe: MH-139A Grey Wolf
Command Interview: AF Chief Scientist Dr. Victoria Coleman
Inter-American Partnerships
Airman Aerials 2022
AMTU Eases Medical Process
Airframe: HC-130J Combat King II
Col. Jeff Pixley: The Evolution of BMT
DAF-MIT AI Accelerator
Emotional Intelligence Leads The Way Forward
Thunderbirds Laid To Rest; Legacy Lives On
AFSOC: A New Generation
Technology: Improving The Future Installation
We Train Like We Fight
Pushing The Envelope: Catalyzing Change
Engineering Future Leaders
Airframe: KC-10 Extender
Future Technology for Maintenance Now
The Debrief: Installation Proving Ground
Honoring The Candy Bomber
Future-proofing Installations
Airframe: MQ-9 Reaper
FYSA Podcast: Change Agents
Airframe: E-8C Joint STARS
At Altitude Podcast: Lt. Gen. James Slife / AFSOC
The Debrief Podcast: Hsu Innovation Institute
AFSOC Shifts Gears
Innovative Airmen Build Community
Human Capital
Airman Aerials 2021
Chuck Yeager's Lasting Legacy
Finely-Tuned, Hyper-Focused
Lt. Gen. Jim Slife and the AFSOC we need
FYSA: Agility Prime
At Altitude Podcast: Brig. Gen. Jeffery D. Valenzia and ABMS
FYSA with SECAF Frank Kendall
The Debrief Podcast: Artificial Intelligence
Under Secretary Jones preparing for pacing challenge, prioritizing potential
Focused on strategic competition, Air Force Secretary Kendall confident “One Team, One Fight” will lead to success
FYSA: Game On!
Hypersonics: Adding Speed to the Quiver
Dr. Mark Lewis: Hypersonics and The Need For Speed
The Debrief Podcast: Women's Initiative Team
Women's Initiative Team : Taking Initiative, Breaking Barriers
Valenzia: ABMS Will Deliver the "Decision Advantage"
Disruptive Technology: The Quantum Frontier
Airframe: The F-35A Lightning II
Virtual Aggression - Real World Response
21st Century Recruiting Maj. Gen. Thomas
Preparing For A Storm
Airframe: The F-117 Nighthawk
Negative for COVID
A Natural Partnership
21st Century Deterrence
A Case for Space
PODCAST: Maj. Gen. Thomas, AFRS
The New Normal
Commanding Crew-1
B-52: Global Strike Workhorse
Learning Some Cold Truths
Failing Forward
PODCAST: Maj. Gen. Higby
CMSAF Wright Looks Back
An Airman: First, Last, Always
Arctic Strategy Unveiled
PODCAST: Brig. Gen. Melancon
The Future Is Now
The A.I. Advantage
Everybody Looks Up
Red, White and Blast-Off
Mitigating Vulnerability
Answering the Call
Developing Resiliency
Last of the Raiders
The Disease Detectives
Sustaining Operations
Great Power Competition
Managing the Future Talent
Sustainable Competition
Toxic Leadership
Leadership Playground
Leader of the Pack
Training Revolution
Reconstructing Tyndall
Research, Acquire, Sustain, Repeat
Foundation for Arctic Security
Northern Vision
Arctic Challenge
25th SecAF Barbara Barrett - The First Interview
Engaging the Arctic
Based In Trust
Built From Scratch
Air Base 201
PODCAST: ASAF Henderson
Maintaining Success
Maintenance Solutions
Closing the Gap
Squadrons 'Beating Heart' of the Air Force
Guarding the Nation's Skies
Faces on the Hill
Building A Power Base
Gateway To Readiness
At Close Range
Looking Down Range
The New Deterrent
PODCAST: Civil Air Patrol
Airframe: The CV-22 Osprey
Operational Impact
Stewards of the Land
The Wright Stuff
SecAF Heather Wilson
Hacking Acquisitions
The Beyond
PODCAST: Dr. Will Roper
Character Takes Flight
Talent and Total Force
Effective Risk
Airframe: The B-17 Flying Fortress
Airframe: The Stearman Kaydet
Open Code
Time is of the Essence
Special Operations
Sustaining Balance
Airframe: The T-6A Texan II
Serving, Saving, Shaping
Airframe: The B-2 Spirit
Herding Health
21st Century Air National Guard
Airframe: The F-35A Lightning II
Persistent Engagement
Out of the Box
Airframe: The HH-60G Pave Hawk
Changing the Story
Joint Investigation
Flying Sergeants
The Agile 99th
Redefining History
Big Solutions From Small Places
The Lever of Culture
The Flying First
Sweet Taste of Freedom
Airframe: The T-38 Talon
Everybody's War
Squadrons 'Beating Heart' of the Air Force
Airframe: The KC-135 Stratotanker
Thawing the Middle
Airman To Be Awarded Medal Of Honor
In Perpetual Mission
Airframe: The C-5 Galaxy
Stop The Bleed, Save A Life
Finding Answers
Power Conductor
Speed and Fusion
Airframe: The EC-130H Compass Call
Staying On Track
Target Acquired
Airframe: The B-1B Lancer
Byte-Size Learning
Icon of Airmanship
U.S. Air Force Chief Scientist
Advancing At The Speed Of Relevance
Airframe: The B-52H Stratofortress
No Detail Too Small
The Disease Detectives
Forecasting Success
Citizen Cyber
Airframe: The C-17 Globemaster III
Care in the Air
Initial Defense
Pilot Exchange
Airframe: The F-16 Fighting Falcon
MAFFS Activate
The State of U.S. Strategic Command
Meet Under Secretary of the Air Force Matthew Donovan
Airframe: The E-3 Sentry (AWACS)
Airframe: The AC-130 Gunship
Where the Sun Never Sets
Firing Up the Force
Formation of Friendship
Airframe: The A-10 Thunderbolt II
Bombs Away
Pocketsize Multiplier
Providing Reinforcement
Airframe: The F-22 Raptor
A View from the Pacific
Creating Synthetic Teammates
Optimizing the Data Loop
Airframe: The F-15 Eagle
Higher Ground
Global Already There
AFOTEC Approved
Polar Airlift
Airframe: The U-2 Dragon Lady
An Innovative Collaborative
Care Loop
Orbital Airmen
Airframe: The SR-71 Blackbird
Battlefield Game Changer
Airframe: The F-35A Lightning II
No English, No Problem
The First Interview
Top Guns
ACC Flight Plan
The Night Watchmen
Guarding the Skies
Partner Airlift
Insatiable Demand
Priority Maintenance
Faces of Deterrence
Special Dedication
Pulling Ahead
The State of Air Force Medicine
Charged Up
Partners In Sight
Cadet Falconers Take Flight
F-4 Flies for Final Time
Farewell to the Chief
Signal Strength
A Beneficial Development
Recipe For Success
A Mighty Display of Democracy
The Aircraft Canaries
Island Sentinels
Atomic Exposure
Eyewitness To Infamy
Capturing Space
Point Of Recovery
Avoiding the Last Step
The Aggressors
Daily Deployed
Acquire, Assess, Exploit
Meals Readily Explained
Down the Hatch
Solo Mission
Whispers of Another War
Bonjour, Mon Nom Est...
Final Mission
Mental Warfare
Embrace the Paste
Boiling Point
Original Air Force One
Arctic Vigil
Farewell to the Force
The Man-Machine Interface
The Swat Team
Finding Closure
From Cradle To Space
Comfort in the Cold
House Of Pain
A Fighting Raven
Formation of a Legacy
Struck By The Thunderbolt
The Perfect Storm
A Solemn Mission
Remembering "Tack"
Aspiring To New Heights
Beyond the Blast Doors
Blood, Sweat, Perfection
An Original Rosie
Missing In America
"They Call Me Legend"
The Code
Forever An Airman
Forward From Vietnam
Digging For Answers
Behind the Hat
Santa By C-130
Civil War Moments
From Beyond the Flames
Hang In There
One Step Forward
Going Beyond
The Human Weapon
The Perfect Edge
The Hands Of Time
Standing in the Door
Lightning Strike
From the Ground Up
A Spartan Death
World-class Cyclist
3-2-1 Contact
Ties That Bind
Rescue Reunion
Trauma To Triumph
The 400
Hurricane Warning
'Katrina Girl' Found
A Look Back
C-17 Health Care
Aim High
Together
The Path
Military Brothers
Students of Fire
Mr. P
Bird's Eye View
Horseback Security
Finally Home
Frozen Tundra Warriors
Taking a Load Off
Standing Up
Full Steam Ahead
Maintaining Red Flag
Crossing Country Line
Press On
Taking It to the Woods
Best Friends
Rolling Thunder
Heavens to Betsy
Strong Survivor
Coaching Giant
Foreign Exchange
Cool School
Impossible Rescue
Quality Breeding
Common Ground
Spiritual Maintenance
The U.S. Space Force is pioneering advancements in space sustainment to enhance satellite durability and functionality in hostile environments.
As the U.S. Air Force confronts a new great power competition with near-peer adversaries, Airmen and Guardians are implementing future-focused strategies informed by institutional knowledge.
In this episode of ‘The Debrief,’ Lt. Gen. Tom Miller, deputy chief of staff for Logistics, Engineering and Force Protection and Col. Patrick Williams, the Air Force director of weather, explain the current security environment and weather Airmen’s role in Great Power Competition.
The Air Force is teaming up with the joint force, industry, academia, and allied/partner forces around the globe to stay ahead of near-peer competition.
Secretary of the Air Force, Frank Kendall, was flown by an autonomous X-62A VISTA, on May 2, 2024, at Edwards Air Force Base, California.
In the vast expanse of the digital frontier, where cutting-edge technology meets the demands of modern warfare, the United States Air Force stands at the forefront of innovation. Among its arsenal of advancements, artificial intelligence emerges as a pivotal force, shaping the future of aerial
Recent developments have markedly increased the scope of AI, enhancing tasks as routine as paperwork processing and as complex as the advancement of kinetic warfare technologies. The Air Force Test Center is at the forefront of the Air Force's exploration into AI and autonomy and leverages its vast
During the 2024 Air Force Association’s Warfare Symposium titled ‘Preparing for Conflict,’ Secretary of the Air Force Frank Kendall talked about the potential for a conflict with China or Russia during his opening remarks. This episode of ‘Pushing the Envelope’ explores how artificial intelligence
In this edition of BLUE, we take a look at how the Air Force is changing to meet the challenge of Reoptimizing for Great Power Competition. From how the service is structured to how service members will be trained and deployed, we examine what’s driving change, and how it impacts people.
Col. Tucker "Cinco" Hamilton, 96th Operations Group commander at Eglin AFB and Air Force AI test and operations chief, discusses the current state of AI within the Air Force, ongoing research, development and testing and AI’s place in building the force of the future.
As educational concepts and technology improve, it’s vital that the Air Force keeps up with the status quo to maximize the learning capability of its Airmen and set them up for success once they reach their operational units. To that end, Robinson has directed AETC to adapt and transition to a
Brig. Gen. Christopher Amrhein took over command of Air Force Recruiting Service in June of 2023 in the middle of the service's first recruiting shortfall in decades. Now he speaks to Airman magazine about changes needed to meet future recruiting goals.
Staff Sgt. Tori Glover, 319th Recruiting Squadron enlisted accessions active duty recruiter, talks on her experience as a recruiter and the challenges recruiters currently face.
The Air Force must recruit and retain the force we need to fly, fight, and win. Today’s Air Force answers our nation’s call with an experienced corps of full-time and part-time officers, enlisted Airmen, and civilians. We must transform those superb available forces into a force more fully capable
The Air Force must accelerate the modernization of key systems with an emphasis on the Department of the Air Force’s Operational Imperatives.
