
Airmen and civilian personnel stationed at Keesler Air Force Base, Mississippi, 10 years ago recall Hurricane Katrina’s fury, as well as the dedicated work done after the storm to resurrect the damaged base and surrounding community.
Pararescueman Staff Sgt. Lopaka Mounts receives a hug from a Texas resident Sept. 13 during search and rescue operations after Hurricane Ike. Sergeant Mounts is assigned to the 331st Air Expeditionary Group at Randolph Air Force Base, Texas. (U.S. Air Force photo/Staff Sgt. James L. Harper Jr.)

This was the scene countless Gulf Coast residents found themselves in after the storm made landfall Aug. 29, 2005. The storm caused chaos and flooding, but some still had to venture outside in the nightmarish scene to salvage basic necessities for the base population.
“The (81st Civil Engineer Squadron) commander at the time said that he couldn’t let us go out into the storm, but I told him that if we lose water we are done,” said Al Watkins, the then 81stCES utilities manager. “The only way that we can be here is if we have sustainable clean water.”
The pressure for Keesler AFB’s water wells was dropping dangerously low. With only one well on an automatic transfer to generator power and flood waters at six feet and rising, something needed to be done.
“(A chief master sergeant in my shop and I) went out and started switching the power over to bring the water wells back up,” he said. “We were sitting in a dominator (truck), which sits off the ground about 10 feet. At first I was thinking ‘we got this,’ but when you start driving through high waters it becomes (really) scary.”
As Watkins and the chief master sergeant braved the storm in over 100 mph winds, their slow trek to bring the base’s water back online looked like a scene from a horror movie. Only half of the base commissary building was visible through 7 feet of water and several cars around the base were on fire because saltwater was covering their electrical systems, he recalled.
“When you start seeing all of this, it affects you to a point where you can’t really believe it,” Watkins said. “We knew we were going to get it, but we didn’t think it would be this bad.”
With all the chaos surrounding the base, the images became hard to process.
“It messes with you psychologically, because you start wondering about those who aren’t prepared,” he said. “You know the mission goes on, but driving throughout the base and seeing these things makes you just not even believe that it is happening. It was pretty scary.”
There was little time to dwell on fear during that unnerving drive around the base. Watkins had received a call — an urgent plea for help from personnel at the base hospital’s boiler plant.
“The (Biloxi) Back Bay sits right behind the hospital,” he said. “So this water is coming in, but the boiler plant sits 3 feet into the ground. The water was up to the chests of the guys who were out there. We took the truck and rescued two of our civil engineer boiler operators.”
Despite completing the rescue mission and bringing the much needed water wells back online, it seemed like Watkins and his team couldn’t catch a break.
“We got everything done and got back. Then we found out that some of our sewer lift stations stopped working, so it was just one thing after the next,” he said. “The sewers were just so filled with back bay water that the pumps were burning up.”
Seeing all the devastation around the base and thinking of those who were out in the storm, Watkins couldn’t help but think of his own home and wonder how it had faired.
“You try to keep a positive spin on it, but now you are wondering how your own house looks,” Watkins said.
Julianne Bocek, a program manager with 2ndAir Force; her husband Tom, a retired senior master sergeant; and their 16-year-old son, TJ, recalled climbing over mountains of rubble, pieces of houses and trash during a two hour walk to get to their neighborhood the morning after the storm.
“We hiked through the family cemetery and as we come around the bend, we have a straight view of our lot and it was nothing but a slab,” Julianne said.
“Well, some people lost everything; we at least had the lower part of our toilet still bolted down, so we had a place to sit and think,” Tom chimed in.
A positive attitude and sense of humor helped the Boceks through the total loss of their dream home. Of the 67 homes in their neighborhood, only a series of foundations remained. It was a loss echoed by many people who had homes along the coast and surrounding areas.
Weeks went by before Watkins too was able to return to his home to assess the damage to his property.
“It took me two weeks just to go check out my own house,” he said. “Half of the roof was gone. I lost everything.”
Watkins knew that in order to move past the storm he’d have to start the rebuilding process immediately, not only for his home but also for his base and his community.
“I just took a step back. I put a big piece of plastic on top of the roof and went to help the neighbors across the street because they were elderly,” he said. “They had a big part of their roof that wasn’t gone, but the shingles were gone. So I went up on the roof to help fix it and fell off twice, but I kept going. I didn’t make it back to my house until five weeks after that day.”
Overall, the Gulf Coast suffered an estimated $105 billion in damage, with Keesler AFB alone amassing $950 million in damage. More than 95 percent of the base’s infrastructure was compromised. Some feared the base would never again open its gates, which would change the face of training for the Air Force.Pararescueman Staff Sgt. Lopaka Mounts receives a hug from a Texas resident Sept. 13 during search and rescue operations after Hurricane Ike. Sergeant Mounts is assigned to the 331st Air Expeditionary Group at Randolph Air Force Base, Texas. (U.S. Air Force photo/Staff Sgt. James L. Harper Jr.)Photo Details/Download Hi-Res
Pararescueman Staff Sgt. Lopaka Mounts receives a hug from a Texas resident Sept. 13 during search and rescue operations after Hurricane Ike. Sergeant Mounts is assigned to the 331st Air Expeditionary Group at Randolph Air Force Base, Texas. (U.S. Air Force photo/Staff Sgt. James L. Harper Jr.)
The physical structures on Keesler AFB and the surrounding areas may have been destroyed; however, the spirits of the base community members were anything but diminished.
“We took portable generators out to the hospital because they had a person on life support,” Watkins said. “That was just the start.”
Because of the damage, parts of the city lacked even the most basic of necessities. This was something Watkins witnessed as a woman whose skin and clothes were covered in mud from the back bay approached him asking for a drink.
“She just wanted some water,” he said. “I saw that the housing area residents were all gone so I grabbed some water hoses (and) put them together. She just sat there and teared up. That’s when I knew that we had to do something.”
Keesler AFB had the only clean water for miles. Watkins and his crew began working around the clock to supply fresh water to the surrounding areas, filling up water trucks and delivering the life-sustaining fluid to the community, he explained.
The base also provided assistance wherever it could in the form of volunteers.
Watkins said though the days were long and tiresome, in a time of tragedy the base’s members rallied and ensured that Keesler AFB would return better than ever.
“Moving forward from victim to survivor, that makes you resilient,” Julianne said. “What was standing here, it was just a house. It was just stuff. This is what home (is) all about – this here, my husband, my family.”
Driving around Keesler AFB and Biloxi now, there are very few reminders of the storm and the devastation it brought to the area. Most of the buildings have been repaired, rebuilt or replaced. At the end of it all the awe-inspiring sense of camaraderie and family is what helped the coast survive and continue to thrive.
“The resiliency of the folks here at Keesler was amazing,” Watkins said. “We didn’t just sit down and wallow. We got up, brushed ourselves off and said let’s go. We knew we had a mission to continue and we did it.”
Just a few years after Katrina devastated the Gulf Coast, Keesler AFB rebuilt, recovered and earned the Commander-in-Chief’s Installation Excellence Award in 2013, naming it the best base in the Air Force.
“My name might not be on any walls anywhere, but this is my base,” Watkins said proudly. “Keesler is a part of me and I’m emotionally connected to it.”U.S. Air Force Logo
The Debrief: Weather and Contested Logistics
Global Exercises and Interoperability
Contested Logistics and Space Sustainment
Logistics on the Attack
Focus on AI Research and Development
The AI Test Force
Pushing the Envelope: AI's Evolution in Cyber Security
At Altitude: Col. Tucker Hamilton
BLUE: The Call to Change
Forging a Foundation: Basic Military Training
Recruiting a Path Forward
At Altitude: Brig. Gen. Christopher Amrhein-AFRS
Line of Effort: Mission Readiness
Line of Effort: Modernization
Line of Effort: Allies and Partners
Line of Effort: Taking Care of Our People
BLUE: Climate Action Plan
Into the future skies: The modernization throughout the Pacific
Growing tomorrow's leaders today
Virtual Reality reduces fuel emissions
Efficiency with modern materials
Senior Enlisted Advisor to the Chairman: Ramón “CZ” Colón-Lópe
Readiness through research
At Altitude: AF Chief Scientist Victoria Coleman
Researching human performance
Experimental mechanical engineering
Innovation in flight testing
At Altitude: CMSAF JoAnne Bass
Resilience: The glue of the forces
Resiliency Research Task Force studies issues affecting Airmen
True North clinic and caring for military training instructors
Unexpected mental health challenges
Challenges being in a new environment
FYSA: Bridging the Science Gap
STEM Initiatives
Grant program promotes innovator culture for DAF scientists
STEM professionals find diverse experiences, career opportunities in Project ARC
Airframe: B-21 Raider
Inter-American Allies
Command Interview: Gen. Jacqueline Van Ovost, USTRANSCOM
Dr. Victoria Coleman, Air Force Chief Scientist
Command Interview: Dr. Julie LaRow, AF Resilience
Airframe: MH-139A Grey Wolf
Command Interview: AF Chief Scientist Dr. Victoria Coleman
Inter-American Partnerships
Airman Aerials 2022
AMTU Eases Medical Process
Airframe: HC-130J Combat King II
Col. Jeff Pixley: The Evolution of BMT
DAF-MIT AI Accelerator
Emotional Intelligence Leads The Way Forward
Thunderbirds Laid To Rest; Legacy Lives On
AFSOC: A New Generation
Technology: Improving The Future Installation
We Train Like We Fight
Pushing The Envelope: Catalyzing Change
Engineering Future Leaders
Airframe: KC-10 Extender
Future Technology for Maintenance Now
The Debrief: Installation Proving Ground
Honoring The Candy Bomber
Future-proofing Installations
Airframe: MQ-9 Reaper
FYSA Podcast: Change Agents
Airframe: E-8C Joint STARS
At Altitude Podcast: Lt. Gen. James Slife / AFSOC
The Debrief Podcast: Hsu Innovation Institute
AFSOC Shifts Gears
Innovative Airmen Build Community
Human Capital
Airman Aerials 2021
Chuck Yeager's Lasting Legacy
Finely-Tuned, Hyper-Focused
Lt. Gen. Jim Slife and the AFSOC we need
FYSA: Agility Prime
At Altitude Podcast: Brig. Gen. Jeffery D. Valenzia and ABMS
FYSA with SECAF Frank Kendall
The Debrief Podcast: Artificial Intelligence
Under Secretary Jones preparing for pacing challenge, prioritizing potential
Focused on strategic competition, Air Force Secretary Kendall confident “One Team, One Fight” will lead to success
FYSA: Game On!
Hypersonics: Adding Speed to the Quiver
Dr. Mark Lewis: Hypersonics and The Need For Speed
The Debrief Podcast: Women's Initiative Team
Women's Initiative Team : Taking Initiative, Breaking Barriers
Valenzia: ABMS Will Deliver the "Decision Advantage"
Disruptive Technology: The Quantum Frontier
Airframe: The F-35A Lightning II
Virtual Aggression - Real World Response
21st Century Recruiting Maj. Gen. Thomas
Preparing For A Storm
Airframe: The F-117 Nighthawk
Negative for COVID
A Natural Partnership
21st Century Deterrence
A Case for Space
PODCAST: Maj. Gen. Thomas, AFRS
The New Normal
Commanding Crew-1
B-52: Global Strike Workhorse
Learning Some Cold Truths
Failing Forward
PODCAST: Maj. Gen. Higby
CMSAF Wright Looks Back
An Airman: First, Last, Always
Arctic Strategy Unveiled
PODCAST: Brig. Gen. Melancon
The Future Is Now
The A.I. Advantage
Everybody Looks Up
Red, White and Blast-Off
Mitigating Vulnerability
Answering the Call
Developing Resiliency
Last of the Raiders
The Disease Detectives
Sustaining Operations
Great Power Competition
Managing the Future Talent
Sustainable Competition
Toxic Leadership
Leadership Playground
Leader of the Pack
Training Revolution
Reconstructing Tyndall
Research, Acquire, Sustain, Repeat
Foundation for Arctic Security
Northern Vision
Arctic Challenge
25th SecAF Barbara Barrett - The First Interview
Engaging the Arctic
Based In Trust
Built From Scratch
Air Base 201
PODCAST: ASAF Henderson
Maintaining Success
Maintenance Solutions
Closing the Gap
Squadrons 'Beating Heart' of the Air Force
Guarding the Nation's Skies
Faces on the Hill
Building A Power Base
Gateway To Readiness
At Close Range
Looking Down Range
The New Deterrent
PODCAST: Civil Air Patrol
Airframe: The CV-22 Osprey
Operational Impact
Stewards of the Land
The Wright Stuff
SecAF Heather Wilson
Hacking Acquisitions
The Beyond
PODCAST: Dr. Will Roper
Character Takes Flight
Talent and Total Force
Effective Risk
Airframe: The B-17 Flying Fortress
Airframe: The Stearman Kaydet
Open Code
Time is of the Essence
Special Operations
Sustaining Balance
Airframe: The T-6A Texan II
Serving, Saving, Shaping
Airframe: The B-2 Spirit
Herding Health
21st Century Air National Guard
Airframe: The F-35A Lightning II
Persistent Engagement
Out of the Box
Airframe: The HH-60G Pave Hawk
Changing the Story
Joint Investigation
Flying Sergeants
The Agile 99th
Redefining History
Big Solutions From Small Places
The Lever of Culture
The Flying First
Sweet Taste of Freedom
Airframe: The T-38 Talon
Everybody's War
Squadrons 'Beating Heart' of the Air Force
Airframe: The KC-135 Stratotanker
Thawing the Middle
Airman To Be Awarded Medal Of Honor
In Perpetual Mission
Airframe: The C-5 Galaxy
Stop The Bleed, Save A Life
Finding Answers
Power Conductor
Speed and Fusion
Airframe: The EC-130H Compass Call
Staying On Track
Target Acquired
Airframe: The B-1B Lancer
Byte-Size Learning
Icon of Airmanship
U.S. Air Force Chief Scientist
Advancing At The Speed Of Relevance
Airframe: The B-52H Stratofortress
No Detail Too Small
The Disease Detectives
Forecasting Success
Citizen Cyber
Airframe: The C-17 Globemaster III
Care in the Air
Initial Defense
Pilot Exchange
Airframe: The F-16 Fighting Falcon
MAFFS Activate
The State of U.S. Strategic Command
Meet Under Secretary of the Air Force Matthew Donovan
Airframe: The E-3 Sentry (AWACS)
Airframe: The AC-130 Gunship
Where the Sun Never Sets
Firing Up the Force
Formation of Friendship
Airframe: The A-10 Thunderbolt II
Bombs Away
Pocketsize Multiplier
Providing Reinforcement
Airframe: The F-22 Raptor
A View from the Pacific
Creating Synthetic Teammates
Optimizing the Data Loop
Airframe: The F-15 Eagle
Higher Ground
Global Already There
AFOTEC Approved
Polar Airlift
Airframe: The U-2 Dragon Lady
An Innovative Collaborative
Care Loop
Orbital Airmen
Airframe: The SR-71 Blackbird
Battlefield Game Changer
Airframe: The F-35A Lightning II
No English, No Problem
The First Interview
Top Guns
ACC Flight Plan
The Night Watchmen
Guarding the Skies
Partner Airlift
Insatiable Demand
Priority Maintenance
Faces of Deterrence
Special Dedication
Pulling Ahead
The State of Air Force Medicine
Charged Up
Partners In Sight
Cadet Falconers Take Flight
F-4 Flies for Final Time
Farewell to the Chief
Signal Strength
A Beneficial Development
Recipe For Success
A Mighty Display of Democracy
The Aircraft Canaries
Island Sentinels
Atomic Exposure
Eyewitness To Infamy
Capturing Space
Point Of Recovery
Avoiding the Last Step
The Aggressors
Daily Deployed
Acquire, Assess, Exploit
Meals Readily Explained
Down the Hatch
Solo Mission
Whispers of Another War
Bonjour, Mon Nom Est...
Final Mission
Mental Warfare
Embrace the Paste
Boiling Point
Original Air Force One
Arctic Vigil
Farewell to the Force
The Man-Machine Interface
The Swat Team
Finding Closure
From Cradle To Space
Comfort in the Cold
House Of Pain
A Fighting Raven
Formation of a Legacy
Struck By The Thunderbolt
The Perfect Storm
A Solemn Mission
Remembering "Tack"
Aspiring To New Heights
Beyond the Blast Doors
Blood, Sweat, Perfection
An Original Rosie
Missing In America
"They Call Me Legend"
The Code
Forever An Airman
Forward From Vietnam
Digging For Answers
Behind the Hat
Santa By C-130
Civil War Moments
From Beyond the Flames
Hang In There
One Step Forward
Going Beyond
The Human Weapon
The Perfect Edge
The Hands Of Time
Standing in the Door
Lightning Strike
From the Ground Up
A Spartan Death
World-class Cyclist
3-2-1 Contact
Ties That Bind
Rescue Reunion
Trauma To Triumph
The 400
Hurricane Warning
'Katrina Girl' Found
A Look Back
C-17 Health Care
Aim High
Together
The Path
Military Brothers
Students of Fire
Mr. P
Bird's Eye View
Horseback Security
Finally Home
Frozen Tundra Warriors
Taking a Load Off
Standing Up
Full Steam Ahead
Maintaining Red Flag
Crossing Country Line
Press On
Taking It to the Woods
Best Friends
Rolling Thunder
Heavens to Betsy
Strong Survivor
Coaching Giant
Foreign Exchange
Cool School
Impossible Rescue
Quality Breeding
Common Ground
Spiritual Maintenance
The U.S. Space Force is pioneering advancements in space sustainment to enhance satellite durability and functionality in hostile environments.
As the U.S. Air Force confronts a new great power competition with near-peer adversaries, Airmen and Guardians are implementing future-focused strategies informed by institutional knowledge.
In this episode of ‘The Debrief,’ Lt. Gen. Tom Miller, deputy chief of staff for Logistics, Engineering and Force Protection and Col. Patrick Williams, the Air Force director of weather, explain the current security environment and weather Airmen’s role in Great Power Competition.
The Air Force is teaming up with the joint force, industry, academia, and allied/partner forces around the globe to stay ahead of near-peer competition.
Secretary of the Air Force, Frank Kendall, was flown by an autonomous X-62A VISTA, on May 2, 2024, at Edwards Air Force Base, California.
In the vast expanse of the digital frontier, where cutting-edge technology meets the demands of modern warfare, the United States Air Force stands at the forefront of innovation. Among its arsenal of advancements, artificial intelligence emerges as a pivotal force, shaping the future of aerial
Recent developments have markedly increased the scope of AI, enhancing tasks as routine as paperwork processing and as complex as the advancement of kinetic warfare technologies. The Air Force Test Center is at the forefront of the Air Force's exploration into AI and autonomy and leverages its vast
During the 2024 Air Force Association’s Warfare Symposium titled ‘Preparing for Conflict,’ Secretary of the Air Force Frank Kendall talked about the potential for a conflict with China or Russia during his opening remarks. This episode of ‘Pushing the Envelope’ explores how artificial intelligence
In this edition of BLUE, we take a look at how the Air Force is changing to meet the challenge of Reoptimizing for Great Power Competition. From how the service is structured to how service members will be trained and deployed, we examine what’s driving change, and how it impacts people.
Col. Tucker "Cinco" Hamilton, 96th Operations Group commander at Eglin AFB and Air Force AI test and operations chief, discusses the current state of AI within the Air Force, ongoing research, development and testing and AI’s place in building the force of the future.
As educational concepts and technology improve, it’s vital that the Air Force keeps up with the status quo to maximize the learning capability of its Airmen and set them up for success once they reach their operational units. To that end, Robinson has directed AETC to adapt and transition to a
Brig. Gen. Christopher Amrhein took over command of Air Force Recruiting Service in June of 2023 in the middle of the service's first recruiting shortfall in decades. Now he speaks to Airman magazine about changes needed to meet future recruiting goals.
Staff Sgt. Tori Glover, 319th Recruiting Squadron enlisted accessions active duty recruiter, talks on her experience as a recruiter and the challenges recruiters currently face.
The Air Force must recruit and retain the force we need to fly, fight, and win. Today’s Air Force answers our nation’s call with an experienced corps of full-time and part-time officers, enlisted Airmen, and civilians. We must transform those superb available forces into a force more fully capable
The Air Force must accelerate the modernization of key systems with an emphasis on the Department of the Air Force’s Operational Imperatives.
