
In this historic photo, a four-ship of F-15C Eagles, deployed from Eglin Air Force Base, fly over the Persian Gulf in the 1990s. The then-named 33rd Tactical Fighter Wing, flew combat air patrol and high value airbourne asset protection missions as part of Operations Desert Storm and Southern Watch. (Courtesy photo)
Battlemap of Operation Desert Storm. Often cited as the first "space war", Global Positioning Satellites enabled much the order of battle including ground forces attacking through the relatively featureless southern desert of Iraq. Illustration // DVIDS
A 37th Tactical Fighter Wing F-117A stealth fighter aircraft refuels from a 22nd Air Refueling Wing KC-10 Extender aircraft during Operation Desert Shield. The F-117A is en route to Saudi Arabia.
NAVSTAR Block II satellite, part of the Global Positioning System, undergoing Air Force testing. During Operation Desert Storm 16 NAVSTAR satellites were in orbit allowing receivers on the ground to have line of sight to at least three satellites enabling triangulation of position.
Often described as the first space war, Desert Storm saw space technology affect multiple areas of airland operations -- position/navigation, weather, communications, imagery and tactical early missile attack warning. Although fairly new, the U.S. Army Space Command, or ARSPACE, was instrumental in affecting this change. Photo // U.S. Army
Retired Air Force General Charles “Chuck” Horner one of the Eagles for Gathering of Eagles 2017 speaks about his experiences during Desert Storm.
Lt. Gen. Charles Horner, commanding general, U.S. Central Air Force, receives a plaque from Col. Ahmed Al-Kuwari, Qatari base commander, during his visit to the base in the aftermath of Operation Desert Storm.
Aircraft of the 379th Air Expeditionary Wing and coalition counterparts fly over the desert in Southwest Asia on April 14, 2003. Aircraft include the KC-135 Stratotanker, F-15E Strike Eagle, F-117 Nighthawk, F-16 Fighting Falcon, British GR-4 Tornado and Australian F/A-18 Hornet. (U.S. Air Force photo/Master Sgt. Ron Przysucha)
Military trucks are unloaded from the nose ramp of a C-5A Galaxy transport aircraft of the U.S. Air Force Reserve, Military Airlift Command, in support of Operation Desert Shield.
Paul Wolfowitz, under secretary of defense for policy, right, takes notes while Gen. Colin Powell, chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Gen. Norman Schwarzkopf, Jr., commander-in-chief, U.S. Central Command, listen to Secretary of Defense Dick Cheney answer questions from the media. The men are taking part in a press conference held by U.S. and Saudi Arabian officials during Operation Desert Storm.
On the opening night of Operation Desert Storm in January 16, 1991, anti-aircraft fire lights up the sky over Baghdad, Iraq after the first F-117 Nighthawks hit their targets completely undetected.
A view of Iraqi armored personnel carriers, tanks and trucks destroyed in a Coalition attack along a road in the Euphrates River Valley during Operation Desert Storm.
An A-10 Thunderbolt II from Davis Monthan Air Force Base fires off its 30mm gun during a training mission at the Barry Goldwater Range, Gila Bend Air Force Auxiliary Field, Arizona, Nov. 20, 2014. The A-10 Thunderbolt is also known as the Warthog, the "flying gun" and the Tankbuster. The aircraft was used extensively during Operation Desert Storm, in support of Nato operations in response to the Kosovo crisis, in Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan and in Operation Iraqi Freedom. (U.S. Air Force photo by Senior Airman Devante Williams)
An Iraqi T-55 tank lies in ruins in the aftermath of an Allied bombing attack during Operation Desert Storm.
An F-117 Nighthawk engages it's target and drops a GBU-28 guided bomb unit during the 'live-fire' weapons testing mission COMBAT HAMMER, at Hill Air Force Base, Utah.
1st Lt. Claire Waldo, 12th Missile Squadron missile combat crew commander, conducts a dry-run for a test launch in the Launch Control Center Feb. 3, 2020, at Vandenberg Air Force Base, Calif. The 576th FLTS is America’s only dedicated intercontinental ballistic missile test squadron professionally executing tests that accurately measure the current and future capability of the ICBM force. Modernization of the U.S. Air Force nuclear force is a key priority moving forward.


U.S. Air Force LogoBattlemap of Operation Desert Storm. Often cited as the first "space war", Global Positioning Satellites enabled much the order of battle including ground forces attacking through the relatively featureless southern desert of Iraq. Illustration // DVIDSPhoto Details/Download Hi-ResCommonly referred to at the time as the Gulf War or the Persian Gulf War, the conflict began with the invasion and annexation of Kuwait by Iraqi land forces on Aug. 2, 1990.
Battlemap of Operation Desert Storm. Often cited as the first "space war", Global Positioning Satellites enabled much the order of battle including ground forces attacking through the relatively featureless southern desert of Iraq. Illustration // DVIDS
In response to this invasion, U.S. president George H. W. Bush, along with the United Kingdom, began deploying forces into Saudi Arabia, Aug. 7. The operation, codenamed Desert Shield, was intended to prevent further Iraqi aggression. The U.S. then used diplomacy to build a coalition of forces from 35 countries to expel Iraqi forces from Kuwait.
This combat phase, codenamed Operation Desert Storm, began the night of Jan. 16, 1991, with eight U.S. Army AH-64 Apache attack helicopters, led by two Air Force MH-53 Pave Hawks, destroying Iraqi radar sites in southern Iraq to clear lanes for attacking coalition aircraft and the operation of E-3 Sentry Airborne Warning and Control System, or AWACS and refueling aircraft over northern Saudi Arabia and southern Iraq.
The Air Force’s post-Vietnam War investment in emerging technologies was critical to the successful air campaign in Iraq.
In the initial phase of the air campaign, the Air Force used an arsenal of more than 30 aircraft types, flying more than 69,000 sorties, to gain and maintain control of the air domain.
These new weapons systems, including stealth aircraft, global positioning system devices, and precision guided technologies, proved essential in neutralizing Iraq’s more than 700 combat aircraft, sophisticated air defense, and anti-aircraft artillery pieces.
The F-117A Nighthawk was employed in combat for just the second time, after participating in the invasion of Panama in 1988.
Ten Nighthawks kicked off the 42-day air campaign by hitting critical air defense and command and communications targets in downtown Baghdad.
A 37th Tactical Fighter Wing F-117A stealth fighter aircraft refuels from a 22nd Air Refueling Wing KC-10 Extender aircraft during Operation Desert Shield. The F-117A is en route to Saudi Arabia.Photo Details/Download Hi-ResIts radar cross-section of only 0.0108 square feet, along with the protection of three EF-111 Aardvark electronic warfare aircraft, made the Nighthawks virtually invisible to Iraq’s top-of-the-line, Soviet-supplied integrated air defense system.
A 37th Tactical Fighter Wing F-117A stealth fighter aircraft refuels from a 22nd Air Refueling Wing KC-10 Extender aircraft during Operation Desert Shield. The F-117A is en route to Saudi Arabia.
In addition, almost all other major Air Force programs that were funded and developed in the 1970s took center stage in the fighting over Kuwait and Iraq.
F-16 Fighting Falcons and F-15 Eagles, along with other coalition aircraft, quickly made the Iraqi Air Force a non-factor in the airspace. Strike Eagles were key in searching out and destroying mobile Scud missile launchers in the western Iraq desert.
A-10 Thunderbolt II ground attack aircraft tore into Iraqi armor and personnel in Kuwait and Iraq, engaging targets of opportunity within assigned grids.Historians have called the conflict the “First Space War” due to the military’s successful use of space-based capabilities/satellites. This includes space-enabled precision, navigation, timing, communication, weather, missile warning and integration across land, air and sea. Desert Storm marked the first real application of GPS in combat.
Weather satellites, U.S. Landsat multi-spectral imagery satellites, GPS, early warning satellites, tactical receive equipment and related applications satellite broadcast, the Tactical Information Broadcast Service and communication satellites all played an important role in the coalition’s success in Iraq.
Space systems and operations, proven in the Gulf War, have become integral to the way the military conducts operations.
Often described as the first space war, Desert Storm saw space technology affect multiple areas of airland operations -- position/navigation, weather, communications, imagery and tactical early missile attack warning. Although fairly new, the U.S. Army Space Command, or ARSPACE, was instrumental in affecting this change. Photo // U.S. ArmyPhoto Details/Download Hi-ResMore than just an enabler for other domains; space-based capabilities directly impact the efficiency and effectiveness of national security operations. The U.S. Space Force is charged with integrating space capabilities into joint, coalition and interagency operations and presenting forces to combatant commanders to meet challenges of the space domain.
Often described as the first space war, Desert Storm saw space technology affect multiple areas of airland operations -- position/navigation, weather, communications, imagery and tactical early missile attack warning. Although fairly new, the U.S. Army Space Command, or ARSPACE, was instrumental in affecting this change. Photo // U.S. Army
Gen. John W. “Jay” Raymond, now the Space Force’s director of Space Operations, told Popular Mechanics magazine in 2017, “(Operation Desert Shield/Storm) really was the first time that we took strategic space information and integrated it into a theater of operations…Going through a desert, at night, without roads and maps – it was all enabled by GPS.”
Now these Air Force technologies, developed for dominating a conflict such as the Gulf War, have become a crucial part in the everyday life and economy of the modern world, enabling applications such as weather radar and personal navigation on smartphones.

The technology advances initiated after the Vietnam War were paired with strategic, tactical and leadership lessons learned by young Airmen in that same conflict.
Long before the first bombs fell on Baghdad in January of 1991, the man who would be in charge of one of the most effective air campaigns in history was hearing whispers from that earlier war.
Then-Lt. Gen. Charles A. Horner, who, as a young captain, flew Wild Weasel missions attacking radar sites during two tours in Vietnam, was determined to avoid the same strategic mistakes in the Persian Gulf that plagued the U.S. military in Southeast Asia.
Fortunately, his boss – Army Gen. H. Norman Schwarzkopf – and other military leaders executing Operation Desert Storm had also served in Vietnam, and learned the same hard lessons.
Retired Air Force General Charles “Chuck” Horner one of the Eagles for Gathering of Eagles 2017 speaks about his experiences during Desert Storm.Photo Details/Download Hi-ResThirty years later, Horner, now a retired four-star general residing in northwest Florida, looks back on the Air Force that struck Saddam Hussein’s forces during Desert Storm as one of the best-trained force to date.
Retired Air Force General Charles “Chuck” Horner one of the Eagles for Gathering of Eagles 2017 speaks about his experiences during Desert Storm.
After Iraq invaded Kuwait, the U.S. led the coalition in a stellar airlift campaign that placed more than 900,000 troops in the Arabian Peninsula for Operation Desert Shield and the buildup for Desert Storm. It was the beginning of an air campaign that would become the largest employment of U.S. airpower since the war in Vietnam.
“When I think back on the past 30 years after Desert Storm, I see the immense impact that particular war had on how we planned to fight in the future and the kind of equipment we would need,” Horner said. “But most of all, I think about the spirit and attitude of our young warriors who were going to be faced with the next battle.“I’m so proud of the way we performed in Desert Storm because of the leadership we had from Schwarzkopf and (Gen. Wilbur L. “Bill” Creech, former Tactical Air Command commander), and the way we had equipment that worked. We had all of the advantages the world had not seen before Desert Storm.”

One of Horner’s first priorities, while planning the air strategy as Schwarzkopf’s joint force air component commander, was to avoid making what he considered the main mistake from Vietnam.
He didn’t want bombing target selection to come from the president or defense secretary. As the architect of the air campaign against Iraq, Horner wanted targeting decisions to be made by commanders directly involved in the area of operations. “Washington was not the place to plan a war,” he had said. “If people there wanted to fight, let them come to the theater (of combat).
“That is the lesson of Vietnam,” Horner said in ‘Airpower Advantage: Planning the Gulf War Campaign 1989-1991,’ a book by Diane Putney for the Air Force History and Museums Program. “Remember our great president (Lyndon B. Johnson) saying, ‘They don’t bomb a s*** house in North Vietnam if I don’t approve it.’
Aircraft of the 379th Air Expeditionary Wing and coalition counterparts fly over the desert in Southwest Asia on April 14, 2003. Aircraft include the KC-135 Stratotanker, F-15E Strike Eagle, F-117 Nighthawk, F-16 Fighting Falcon, British GR-4 Tornado and Australian F/A-18 Hornet. (U.S. Air Force photo/Master Sgt. Ron Przysucha)Photo Details/Download Hi-Res“Well, I was the guy bombing the s*** houses, and I was never going to let that happen if I ever got in charge because it is not right,” Horner said. “If you want to know whether war is going to be successful or not, just ask where the targets are being picked. If they say, ‘We picked them in Washington,’ get out of the country… because it is a loser.”
Aircraft of the 379th Air Expeditionary Wing and coalition counterparts fly over the desert in Southwest Asia on April 14, 2003. Aircraft include the KC-135 Stratotanker, F-15E Strike Eagle, F-117 Nighthawk, F-16 Fighting Falcon, British GR-4 Tornado and Australian F/A-18 Hornet. (U.S. Air Force photo/Master Sgt. Ron Przysucha)
The day Horner, then the commander of 9th Air Force and U.S. Central Command Air Forces at Shaw Air Force Base, South Carolina, received the call that eventually launched Desert Storm, he was flying his F-16 on an air-to-air training mission near the North Carolina coast with two F-15s from Langley AFB, Virginia.
He’d expected the call from Schwarzkopf since the invasion of Kuwait. But once the call came from the Federal Aviation Administration to notify him to return to Shaw AFB, he instantly knew what it meant. He and his staff had to prepare the air portion of a CENTCOM briefing for President George H.W. Bush at Camp David, Maryland, the next morning.

After the invasion of Kuwait, the coalition’s first priority was protecting Saudi Arabia. Horner, who had developed friendships with the Saudis earlier, remained in Saudi Arabia after he and Schwarzkopf went there a few days after the invasion of Kuwait.The coalition organized for Desert Shield and Storm gave the branches of the U.S. military an opportunity to work closely with each other, as well as with forces from other nations, as they would later do during operations Iraqi and Enduring Freedom.
A massive pre-positioning of equipment, supplies, munitions and fuels around the Persian Gulf, begun by the Joint Rapid Deployment Force in the 1980s, expedited preparations to conduct military operations in the area of responsibility, Horner said.
“When our aircraft landed in the Gulf airfields, they were met with spares, fuel, munitions, living facilities and all the other things they would need to survive and fight,” he wrote in ‘Desert Storm: A View From the Front.’ “This material had been stored on ships anchored in theater and in leased warehouses throughout the AOR.”
Well before the crisis in the Gulf began, the military had trained for an eventual showdown with Iraq.
A month before the invasion, a CENTCOM war game used a scenario of a “Country Orange” attacking Kuwait and Saudi Arabia from the north.
Paul Wolfowitz, under secretary of defense for policy, right, takes notes while Gen. Colin Powell, chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Gen. Norman Schwarzkopf, Jr., commander-in-chief, U.S. Central Command, listen to Secretary of Defense Dick Cheney answer questions from the media. The men are taking part in a press conference held by U.S. and Saudi Arabian officials during Operation Desert Storm.Photo Details/Download Hi-ResAt the time Iraq invaded Kuwait, it fielded the world’s fifth-largest army, with a million soldiers; larger than the U.S. Army and Marine Corps combined, according to a Los Angeles Times article on Aug. 13, 1990.
Paul Wolfowitz, under secretary of defense for policy, right, takes notes while Gen. Colin Powell, chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Gen. Norman Schwarzkopf, Jr., commander-in-chief, U.S. Central Command, listen to Secretary of Defense Dick Cheney answer questions from the media. The men are taking part in a press conference held by U.S. and Saudi Arabian officials during Operation Desert Storm.
The weaknesses coalition military planners hoped to exploit included an incompetent senior staff chosen for their devotion to Hussein rather than their military prowess, and only about one-third of its soldiers were experienced combat troops, according to U.S. officials quoted in the article.
“When Gen. Schwarzkopf took command of (CENTCOM), he said we have to plan for an Iraqi invasion of Kuwait and Saudi Arabia because Iraq came out of the Iran-Iraq War very powerful militarily,” Horner said. “So, of course, they were sitting right next to the Fort Knox in the Middle East. So, when it happened, I wasn’t surprised. We’d anticipated it was going to happen, but the speed with which we had to react was surprising.”

“The things that guided our strategy was to be unrelenting and to bring such a powerful force, so quickly and so thoroughly on the enemy, that they would be forced to leave Kuwait,” Horner said. “It was not going to be piecemeal. It was not going to be to play Mr. Nice Guy. It was going to be as vicious as possible, and that drove the strategy. The second part of our strategy was to get control of the air first and foremost, which we did not do in Vietnam.”
The result was a prolonged air campaign that set up a short but decisive ground campaign. As the air war kicked off the first night of Desert Storm, Horner watched from the tactical air control center in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, as coalition aircraft flew north. At first, he wasn’t completely confident about how successful the attack would be or the cost it would take in aircraft and personnel.
On the opening night of Operation Desert Storm in January 16, 1991, anti-aircraft fire lights up the sky over Baghdad, Iraq after the first F-117 Nighthawks hit their targets completely undetected.Photo Details/Download Hi-ResHowever, Horner knew it was going well when he saw CNN’s live feed from Baghdad disappear. As CNN’s television satellite transmission equipment was not allowed entry into the highly controlled, secretive, authoritarian state, they had to transmit through antennas atop the AT&T building in downtown Baghdad.
On the opening night of Operation Desert Storm in January 16, 1991, anti-aircraft fire lights up the sky over Baghdad, Iraq after the first F-117 Nighthawks hit their targets completely undetected.
It was the same building that housed Iraq’s air defense operations and from which communications emanated from Iraq’s air command control system. It was the target of one of the first bombs dropped from U.S. planes.
When CNN reporter Peter Arnett went off the air at the precise moment the strike was scheduled, cheers went through the air operations center, Horner said. If CNN was off the air, so was Iraq’s air defense system.
“So as the sun came up the next morning and all of our airplanes were coming home except one, we became aware that this was going to go a lot better than even the best critics thought it might,” Horner said.
By Feb. 23, the air campaign was mostly complete. Coalition ground forces swiftly drove the Republican Guard from Kuwait and advanced into Iraq, forcing a ceasefire within 100 hours. Desert Storm was won at a much lower cost than even in the most optimistic prognostications, with 148 Americans killed in action and another 145 non-battle deaths. The Defense Intelligence Agency numbered Iraqi casualties at about 100,000, although later the figure was disputed to be more in the 20,000 to 40,000 range.
Horner said the bombing campaign proved most productive attacking Republican Guard and armor units because Hussein depended on them to retain power. The attacks to gain control of the air, coupled with medium-altitude operations, air-to-air excellence and defense suppression attacks were also effective, he said.
“When the ground war started, I expected rapid gains given the fact that we had reduced the Iraqi ground units to a level of ‘not combat ready,’ using our Army’s definition,” Horner said. “What surprised most of us was the surrender rate. That was beyond our expectations. Once I became certain, early in the war, that our losses were manageable, I knew the ground war would go well, but I underestimated how well.”Horner, who co-wrote his account of the air war with the late Tom Clancy in “Every Man a Tiger,” gives much of the credit for training the force he led during Desert Storm to Creech and Marine Corps Gen. George B. Crist, Schwarzkopf’s predecessor as CENTCOM commander-in-chief, who both placed great importance on making training as close to real world as possible. They led the push for more realistic exercises, an emphasis on aircraft maintenance, bomb scores, and the right tactics, which all came together during Desert Storm.
Another lesson from Crist that played into Horner’s strategy was to force decisions down to the lowest level and hold those people responsible. Horner saw the benefits of that policy during a meeting with a munitions technical sergeant. Horner was visiting the bomb dock where munitions were built and saw the noncommissioned officer sitting on a dust-covered wooden crate, and he asked him how things were going and if he was running into any problems.
“He said, ‘Well, those dumb guys in Riyadh, meaning me, told me one day to load 2,000-pound bombs on each F-16,” Horner said, smiling. “Those dummies didn’t know that I didn’t have any 2,000-pound bombs, so I went ahead and put four 1,000-pound bombs on each of the airplanes, and the mission flew. If he had not been empowered, all he had to do was say I don’t have two 2,000-pound bombs, and we would have never gotten those two planes off. It was empowerment that made the difference, and that was one of the secrets we saw in Desert Storm.”A view of Iraqi armored personnel carriers, tanks and trucks destroyed in a Coalition attack along a road in the Euphrates River Valley during Operation Desert Storm.Photo Details/Download Hi-ResIraq’s air force was almost non-existent during Desert Storm. Hussein hoped to wait out the coalition bombardment, which he didn’t expect would last more than four or five days. As a result, gaining control of the air almost immediately allowed the coalition forces to interdict supply lines and degrade command and control links, according to a GlobalSecurity.org article. Air supremacy also drastically destroyed the will of the Iraqi army; they surrendered in droves when the ground war began 38 days later.
A view of Iraqi armored personnel carriers, tanks and trucks destroyed in a Coalition attack along a road in the Euphrates River Valley during Operation Desert Storm.
At the cessation of hostilities, coalition forces had destroyed 3,700 of Iraq’s 4,280 tanks and 2,400 of its 2,870 armored vehicles. The bomb tonnage dropped by U.S. planes per day equaled the average tonnage dropped on Germany and Japan during the entirety of World War II, according to the “White Paper – Air Force Performance in Desert Storm, Department of the Air Force,” published in April 1991.
Aside from the superior training that was on display during Desert Shield and Storm, Horner believes another legacy of the first war in the Gulf was the technological advances it put on display for the Air Force.“I think the American public and the world were amazed at the technology that was exposed by Desert Storm,” he said. “The stealth of the F-117 and its ability to go anywhere in heavily defended areas of the world and carry out its mission with absolute precision, the training of our air-to-air combat people and the ability to defeat a very sophisticated surface-to-air missile threat all came into play, and they weren’t appreciated because of our experiences in previous wars such as Vietnam. It served us very well and created an illusion that we were more successful than we really were. But I’ll accept that.”

The proven ability to employ air and space capabilities to achieve swift effects, as demonstrated during Operation Desert Storm, is increasingly at risk putting the Air Force and Space Force at a tipping point similar to the post-Vietnam era.
The capability gap separating the Air Force and Space Force from potential adversaries and competitors continues to narrow and is more competitive, creating an international security environment more dangerous than we have seen in generations.
Old adversaries and emerging threats have closely studied the U.S. military’s success in Operation Desert Storm and have aggressively worked to negate long-standing warfighting advantages and challenge our current technological advantage.
1st Lt. Claire Waldo, 12th Missile Squadron missile combat crew commander, conducts a dry-run for a test launch in the Launch Control Center Feb. 3, 2020, at Vandenberg Air Force Base, Calif. The 576th FLTS is America’s only dedicated intercontinental ballistic missile test squadron professionally executing tests that accurately measure the current and future capability of the ICBM force. Modernization of the U.S. Air Force nuclear force is a key priority moving forward.Photo Details/Download Hi-ResThese threats require accelerated change through continued investments in key modernization programs to maintain the asymmetric advantage. This creates a delicate balancing act between maintaining readiness of today and modernizing for tomorrow.
1st Lt. Claire Waldo, 12th Missile Squadron missile combat crew commander, conducts a dry-run for a test launch in the Launch Control Center Feb. 3, 2020, at Vandenberg Air Force Base, Calif. The 576th FLTS is America’s only dedicated intercontinental ballistic missile test squadron professionally executing tests that accurately measure the current and future capability of the ICBM force. Modernization of the U.S. Air Force nuclear force is a key priority moving forward.
Continued investment in Air and Space Force capabilities and readiness are essential to ensuring that the U.S. stays ahead of its adversaries in all domains and deter war from beginning or extending into Space.
Prioritizing investments in modernization and development of game-changing technologies, such as 6th Generation aircraft, artificial intelligence and hypersonic weapons, will provide joint and coalition forces the advantages they have had in past conflicts, such as Operation Desert Shield/Storm, and produce the new advantages the Air and Space Forces will need in the future.
The Debrief: Weather and Contested Logistics
Global Exercises and Interoperability
Contested Logistics and Space Sustainment
Logistics on the Attack
Focus on AI Research and Development
The AI Test Force
Pushing the Envelope: AI's Evolution in Cyber Security
At Altitude: Col. Tucker Hamilton
BLUE: The Call to Change
Forging a Foundation: Basic Military Training
Recruiting a Path Forward
At Altitude: Brig. Gen. Christopher Amrhein-AFRS
Line of Effort: Mission Readiness
Line of Effort: Modernization
Line of Effort: Allies and Partners
Line of Effort: Taking Care of Our People
BLUE: Climate Action Plan
Into the future skies: The modernization throughout the Pacific
Growing tomorrow's leaders today
Virtual Reality reduces fuel emissions
Efficiency with modern materials
Senior Enlisted Advisor to the Chairman: Ramón “CZ” Colón-Lópe
Readiness through research
At Altitude: AF Chief Scientist Victoria Coleman
Researching human performance
Experimental mechanical engineering
Innovation in flight testing
At Altitude: CMSAF JoAnne Bass
Resilience: The glue of the forces
Resiliency Research Task Force studies issues affecting Airmen
True North clinic and caring for military training instructors
Unexpected mental health challenges
Challenges being in a new environment
FYSA: Bridging the Science Gap
STEM Initiatives
Grant program promotes innovator culture for DAF scientists
STEM professionals find diverse experiences, career opportunities in Project ARC
Airframe: B-21 Raider
Inter-American Allies
Command Interview: Gen. Jacqueline Van Ovost, USTRANSCOM
Dr. Victoria Coleman, Air Force Chief Scientist
Command Interview: Dr. Julie LaRow, AF Resilience
Airframe: MH-139A Grey Wolf
Command Interview: AF Chief Scientist Dr. Victoria Coleman
Inter-American Partnerships
Airman Aerials 2022
AMTU Eases Medical Process
Airframe: HC-130J Combat King II
Col. Jeff Pixley: The Evolution of BMT
DAF-MIT AI Accelerator
Emotional Intelligence Leads The Way Forward
Thunderbirds Laid To Rest; Legacy Lives On
AFSOC: A New Generation
Technology: Improving The Future Installation
We Train Like We Fight
Pushing The Envelope: Catalyzing Change
Engineering Future Leaders
Airframe: KC-10 Extender
Future Technology for Maintenance Now
The Debrief: Installation Proving Ground
Honoring The Candy Bomber
Future-proofing Installations
Airframe: MQ-9 Reaper
FYSA Podcast: Change Agents
Airframe: E-8C Joint STARS
At Altitude Podcast: Lt. Gen. James Slife / AFSOC
The Debrief Podcast: Hsu Innovation Institute
AFSOC Shifts Gears
Innovative Airmen Build Community
Human Capital
Airman Aerials 2021
Chuck Yeager's Lasting Legacy
Finely-Tuned, Hyper-Focused
Lt. Gen. Jim Slife and the AFSOC we need
FYSA: Agility Prime
At Altitude Podcast: Brig. Gen. Jeffery D. Valenzia and ABMS
FYSA with SECAF Frank Kendall
The Debrief Podcast: Artificial Intelligence
Under Secretary Jones preparing for pacing challenge, prioritizing potential
Focused on strategic competition, Air Force Secretary Kendall confident “One Team, One Fight” will lead to success
FYSA: Game On!
Hypersonics: Adding Speed to the Quiver
Dr. Mark Lewis: Hypersonics and The Need For Speed
The Debrief Podcast: Women's Initiative Team
Women's Initiative Team : Taking Initiative, Breaking Barriers
Valenzia: ABMS Will Deliver the "Decision Advantage"
Disruptive Technology: The Quantum Frontier
Airframe: The F-35A Lightning II
Virtual Aggression - Real World Response
21st Century Recruiting Maj. Gen. Thomas
Preparing For A Storm
Airframe: The F-117 Nighthawk
Negative for COVID
A Natural Partnership
21st Century Deterrence
A Case for Space
PODCAST: Maj. Gen. Thomas, AFRS
The New Normal
Commanding Crew-1
B-52: Global Strike Workhorse
Learning Some Cold Truths
Failing Forward
PODCAST: Maj. Gen. Higby
CMSAF Wright Looks Back
An Airman: First, Last, Always
Arctic Strategy Unveiled
PODCAST: Brig. Gen. Melancon
The Future Is Now
The A.I. Advantage
Everybody Looks Up
Red, White and Blast-Off
Mitigating Vulnerability
Answering the Call
Developing Resiliency
Last of the Raiders
The Disease Detectives
Sustaining Operations
Great Power Competition
Managing the Future Talent
Sustainable Competition
Toxic Leadership
Leadership Playground
Leader of the Pack
Training Revolution
Reconstructing Tyndall
Research, Acquire, Sustain, Repeat
Foundation for Arctic Security
Northern Vision
Arctic Challenge
25th SecAF Barbara Barrett - The First Interview
Engaging the Arctic
Based In Trust
Built From Scratch
Air Base 201
PODCAST: ASAF Henderson
Maintaining Success
Maintenance Solutions
Closing the Gap
Squadrons 'Beating Heart' of the Air Force
Guarding the Nation's Skies
Faces on the Hill
Building A Power Base
Gateway To Readiness
At Close Range
Looking Down Range
The New Deterrent
PODCAST: Civil Air Patrol
Airframe: The CV-22 Osprey
Operational Impact
Stewards of the Land
The Wright Stuff
SecAF Heather Wilson
Hacking Acquisitions
The Beyond
PODCAST: Dr. Will Roper
Character Takes Flight
Talent and Total Force
Effective Risk
Airframe: The B-17 Flying Fortress
Airframe: The Stearman Kaydet
Open Code
Time is of the Essence
Special Operations
Sustaining Balance
Airframe: The T-6A Texan II
Serving, Saving, Shaping
Airframe: The B-2 Spirit
Herding Health
21st Century Air National Guard
Airframe: The F-35A Lightning II
Persistent Engagement
Out of the Box
Airframe: The HH-60G Pave Hawk
Changing the Story
Joint Investigation
Flying Sergeants
The Agile 99th
Redefining History
Big Solutions From Small Places
The Lever of Culture
The Flying First
Sweet Taste of Freedom
Airframe: The T-38 Talon
Everybody's War
Squadrons 'Beating Heart' of the Air Force
Airframe: The KC-135 Stratotanker
Thawing the Middle
Airman To Be Awarded Medal Of Honor
In Perpetual Mission
Airframe: The C-5 Galaxy
Stop The Bleed, Save A Life
Finding Answers
Power Conductor
Speed and Fusion
Airframe: The EC-130H Compass Call
Staying On Track
Target Acquired
Airframe: The B-1B Lancer
Byte-Size Learning
Icon of Airmanship
U.S. Air Force Chief Scientist
Advancing At The Speed Of Relevance
Airframe: The B-52H Stratofortress
No Detail Too Small
The Disease Detectives
Forecasting Success
Citizen Cyber
Airframe: The C-17 Globemaster III
Care in the Air
Initial Defense
Pilot Exchange
Airframe: The F-16 Fighting Falcon
MAFFS Activate
The State of U.S. Strategic Command
Meet Under Secretary of the Air Force Matthew Donovan
Airframe: The E-3 Sentry (AWACS)
Airframe: The AC-130 Gunship
Where the Sun Never Sets
Firing Up the Force
Formation of Friendship
Airframe: The A-10 Thunderbolt II
Bombs Away
Pocketsize Multiplier
Providing Reinforcement
Airframe: The F-22 Raptor
A View from the Pacific
Creating Synthetic Teammates
Optimizing the Data Loop
Airframe: The F-15 Eagle
Higher Ground
Global Already There
AFOTEC Approved
Polar Airlift
Airframe: The U-2 Dragon Lady
An Innovative Collaborative
Care Loop
Orbital Airmen
Airframe: The SR-71 Blackbird
Battlefield Game Changer
Airframe: The F-35A Lightning II
No English, No Problem
The First Interview
Top Guns
ACC Flight Plan
The Night Watchmen
Guarding the Skies
Partner Airlift
Insatiable Demand
Priority Maintenance
Faces of Deterrence
Special Dedication
Pulling Ahead
The State of Air Force Medicine
Charged Up
Partners In Sight
Cadet Falconers Take Flight
F-4 Flies for Final Time
Farewell to the Chief
Signal Strength
A Beneficial Development
Recipe For Success
A Mighty Display of Democracy
The Aircraft Canaries
Island Sentinels
Atomic Exposure
Eyewitness To Infamy
Capturing Space
Point Of Recovery
Avoiding the Last Step
The Aggressors
Daily Deployed
Acquire, Assess, Exploit
Meals Readily Explained
Down the Hatch
Solo Mission
Whispers of Another War
Bonjour, Mon Nom Est...
Final Mission
Mental Warfare
Embrace the Paste
Boiling Point
Original Air Force One
Arctic Vigil
Farewell to the Force
The Man-Machine Interface
The Swat Team
Finding Closure
From Cradle To Space
Comfort in the Cold
House Of Pain
A Fighting Raven
Formation of a Legacy
Struck By The Thunderbolt
The Perfect Storm
A Solemn Mission
Remembering "Tack"
Aspiring To New Heights
Beyond the Blast Doors
Blood, Sweat, Perfection
An Original Rosie
Missing In America
"They Call Me Legend"
The Code
Forever An Airman
Forward From Vietnam
Digging For Answers
Behind the Hat
Santa By C-130
Civil War Moments
From Beyond the Flames
Hang In There
One Step Forward
Going Beyond
The Human Weapon
The Perfect Edge
The Hands Of Time
Standing in the Door
Lightning Strike
From the Ground Up
A Spartan Death
World-class Cyclist
3-2-1 Contact
Ties That Bind
Rescue Reunion
Trauma To Triumph
The 400
Hurricane Warning
'Katrina Girl' Found
A Look Back
C-17 Health Care
Aim High
Together
The Path
Military Brothers
Students of Fire
Mr. P
Bird's Eye View
Horseback Security
Finally Home
Frozen Tundra Warriors
Taking a Load Off
Standing Up
Full Steam Ahead
Maintaining Red Flag
Crossing Country Line
Press On
Taking It to the Woods
Best Friends
Rolling Thunder
Heavens to Betsy
Strong Survivor
Coaching Giant
Foreign Exchange
Cool School
Impossible Rescue
Quality Breeding
Common Ground
Spiritual Maintenance
The U.S. Space Force is pioneering advancements in space sustainment to enhance satellite durability and functionality in hostile environments.
As the U.S. Air Force confronts a new great power competition with near-peer adversaries, Airmen and Guardians are implementing future-focused strategies informed by institutional knowledge.
In this episode of ‘The Debrief,’ Lt. Gen. Tom Miller, deputy chief of staff for Logistics, Engineering and Force Protection and Col. Patrick Williams, the Air Force director of weather, explain the current security environment and weather Airmen’s role in Great Power Competition.
The Air Force is teaming up with the joint force, industry, academia, and allied/partner forces around the globe to stay ahead of near-peer competition.
Secretary of the Air Force, Frank Kendall, was flown by an autonomous X-62A VISTA, on May 2, 2024, at Edwards Air Force Base, California.
In the vast expanse of the digital frontier, where cutting-edge technology meets the demands of modern warfare, the United States Air Force stands at the forefront of innovation. Among its arsenal of advancements, artificial intelligence emerges as a pivotal force, shaping the future of aerial
Recent developments have markedly increased the scope of AI, enhancing tasks as routine as paperwork processing and as complex as the advancement of kinetic warfare technologies. The Air Force Test Center is at the forefront of the Air Force's exploration into AI and autonomy and leverages its vast
During the 2024 Air Force Association’s Warfare Symposium titled ‘Preparing for Conflict,’ Secretary of the Air Force Frank Kendall talked about the potential for a conflict with China or Russia during his opening remarks. This episode of ‘Pushing the Envelope’ explores how artificial intelligence
In this edition of BLUE, we take a look at how the Air Force is changing to meet the challenge of Reoptimizing for Great Power Competition. From how the service is structured to how service members will be trained and deployed, we examine what’s driving change, and how it impacts people.
Col. Tucker "Cinco" Hamilton, 96th Operations Group commander at Eglin AFB and Air Force AI test and operations chief, discusses the current state of AI within the Air Force, ongoing research, development and testing and AI’s place in building the force of the future.
As educational concepts and technology improve, it’s vital that the Air Force keeps up with the status quo to maximize the learning capability of its Airmen and set them up for success once they reach their operational units. To that end, Robinson has directed AETC to adapt and transition to a
Brig. Gen. Christopher Amrhein took over command of Air Force Recruiting Service in June of 2023 in the middle of the service's first recruiting shortfall in decades. Now he speaks to Airman magazine about changes needed to meet future recruiting goals.
Staff Sgt. Tori Glover, 319th Recruiting Squadron enlisted accessions active duty recruiter, talks on her experience as a recruiter and the challenges recruiters currently face.
The Air Force must recruit and retain the force we need to fly, fight, and win. Today’s Air Force answers our nation’s call with an experienced corps of full-time and part-time officers, enlisted Airmen, and civilians. We must transform those superb available forces into a force more fully capable
The Air Force must accelerate the modernization of key systems with an emphasis on the Department of the Air Force’s Operational Imperatives.
