
Staying a step ahead in current and future conflicts required a new edge in air warfare. In this episode, we introduce you to the newest fifth generation multirole fighter aircraft, the F-35. 

To learn more about the F-35, visit:

http://www.af.mil/AboutUs/FactSheets/Display/tabid/224/Article/478441/f-35a-lightning-ii-conventional-takeoff-and-landing-variant.aspx

For more information on the Joint Strike Fighter program, visit:

http://www.jsf.mil/index.htm

For more information about the F-35 manufacturer, visit:

https://www.f35.com/

Music by: Killer Tracks
Maj. Thomas Hayes, a pilot with the 31st Test and Evaluation Squadron, a tenant unit at Edwards Air Force Base, Calif., gives an inside look at what it's like to be a  F-35A test pilot.

Six operational test and evaluation F-35s and more than 85 Airmen of the 31st TES travelled to Mountain Home AFB to conduct the first simulated deployment test of the F-35A, specifically to execute three key initial operational capability mission sets: suppression of enemy air defenses, close air support and air interdiction.
An F-35A Lightning II from the 33rd Fighter Wing streaks across the sky above Eglin Air Force Base, Fla. while coming in for landing after a training sortie. The 33rd Fighter Wing is responsible for F-35 A/B/C Lightning II pilot and maintainer training for the Marine Corps, the Navy, the Air Force and, in the future, at least eight coalition partners. Initially, 59 aircraft and three flying squadrons, one for each service/aircraft variant, will be established at Eglin. (U.S. Air Force photo/Tech. Sgt. Bennie J. Davis III)
ATLANTIC OCEAN (Dec. 3, 2012) F-35B test aircraft BF-3, flown by Lt. Cmdr. Michael Burks, completes the first aerial weapons release of an inert 500-pound GBU-12 Paveway II laser-guided bomb by any variant of the F-35 Lightning II aircraft. BF-3 dropped the GBU-12 over the Atlantic Test Ranges from an internal weapons bay. The F-35B is the variant of the Lightning II designed for use by the U.S. Marine Corps, as well as F-35 international partners in the United Kingdom and Italy. The F-35B is capable of short takeoffs and vertical landings to enable air power projection from amphibious ships, ski-jump aircraft carriers and expeditionary airfields. The F-35B is undergoing flight test and evaluation at NAS Patuxent River, Md., prior to delivery to the fleet. (U.S. Navy photo courtesy of Lockheed Martin by Layne Laughter/Released) 121203-O-GR159-002
Join the conversation
http://www.facebook.com/USNavy
http://www.twitter.com/USNavy
http://navylive.dodlive.mil
F-35A Lightning II's from the 34th Fighter Squadron at Hill Air Force Base, Utah, land at Royal Air Force Lakenheath, England, April 15, 2017. The aircraft arrival marks the first F-35A fighter training deployment to the U.S. European Command area of responsibility or any overseas location as a flying training deployment. (U.S. Air Force photo by Tech. Sgt. Matthew Plew)
F-35A Lightning IIs from the 58th Fighter Squadron, 33rd Fighter Wing, Eglin AFB, Fla., perform an aerial refueling mission May 14, 2013, off the coast of northwest Florida. The 33rd Fighter Wing is a joint graduate flying and maintenance training wing that trains Air Force, Marine, Navy and international partner operators and maintainers of the F-35 Lightning II. (U.S. Air Force photo/Master Sgt. Donald R. Allen)
Staff Sgt. Bradley Anthis, a 58th Aircraft Maintenance Unit crew chief, monitors the F-35 Lightning II during a maintenance engine run at Eglin Air Force Base, Fla.(U.S. Air Force photo/Tech. Sgt. Bennie J. Davis III)
A pair of F-35A Lightning IIs rom the 33rd Fighter Wing streaks across the sky above Eglin Air Force Base, Fl. while coming in for landing after a training sortie. The 334rd Fighter Wing is responsible for F-35 A/B/C Lightning II pilot and maintainer training for the Marine Corps, the Navy, the Air Force and, in the future, at least eight coalition partners. Initially, 59 aircraft and three flying squadrons, one for each service/aircraft variant, will be established at Eglin. (U.S. Air Force photo/Tech. Sgt. Bennie J. Davis III)
A F-35A Lightning II from the 33rd Fighter Wing streaks across the sky above Eglin Air Force Base, Fl. while coming in for landing after a training sortie. The 334rd Fighter Wing is responsible for F-35 A/B/C Lightning II pilot and maintainer training for the Marine Corps, the Navy, the Air Force and, in the future, at least eight coalition partners. Initially, 59 aircraft and three flying squadrons, one for each service/aircraft variant, will be established at Eglin. (U.S. Air Force photo/Tech. Sgt. Bennie J. Davis III)
An F-35A Lightning II assigned to the 6th Weapons Squadron, U.S. Air Force Weapons School, takes off for a training mission at Nellis Air Force Base, Nev., Jan. 12, 2021. The school provides academic and advisory support to numerous units, enhancing air combat training for Airmen from the Air Force, Department of Defense and U.S. allied services each year. (U.S. Air Force photo by William R. Lewis)
An F-35A Lightning II fighter jet assigned to the 421st Fighter Squadron, Hill Air Force Base, Utah, takes off during Red Flag 20-1 at Nellis AFB, Nevada, Feb. 5, 2020. The F-35A is designed to provide the pilot with unsurpassed situational awareness, positive target identification and precision strike capabilities in all weather conditions. (U.S. Air Force photo by William Lewis)
Capt. Kristin Wolfe, F-35 Lightning II Demonstration Team commander and pilot, performs the "dedication pass" maneuver at the 2020 Fort Lauderdale Air Show Nov. 21, 2020 in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. This was the F-35 Demonstration Team's 11th show of the season and included performances from all four Air Combat Command single-ship jet demonstration teams. (U.S. Air Force photo by Capt. Kip Sumner)
Twenty-five F-35A Lightning IIs assigned to the 354th Fighter Wing prepare to launch during exercise Arctic Gold 21-2 April 7, 2021, at Eielson Air Force Base, Alaska. Arctic Gold evaluated the 354th FW’s ability to effectively generate aircraft and deploy personnel and cargo from across the wing. (U.S. Air Force photo by Senior Airman Beaux Hebert)
A U.S. Air Force B-2A Spirit assigned to the 509th Bomb Wing at Whiteman Air Force Base, Mo., and a Royal Netherlands Air Force F-35A Lightning II conduct aerial operations in support of Bomber Task Force Europe 20-2 over the North Sea, March 18, 2020. Bomber missions provide opportunities to train and work with NATO allies and theater partners in combined and joint operations and exercises. (U.S. Air Force photo by Master Sgt. Matthew Plew)
A B-2A Spirit bomber assigned to the 509th Bomb Wing leads a delta formation consisting of two F-15C Eagles assigned to the 48th Fighter Wing and two Royal Air Force F-35B Lightning IIs as they conduct aerial operations over the North Sea, Sept. 16, 2019. The 48th Fighter Wing and the Royal Air Force routinely train with integrated fourth and fifth-generation capabilities to deliver full spectrum air combat support to European allies and partners. (U.S. Air Force photo by Tech. Sgt. Matthew Plew)
An F-35A Lightning ll sits in a hangar at Lakeland Linder International Airport, Lakeland, Fla., following an aerobatic routine by the F-35A Lightning ll demonstration team at the Sun 'n Fun Holiday Flying Festival, Dec. 4, 2020. The Lightning II is a stealth-capable, multi-role attack fighter designed to penetrate the most hostile areas of the world without the threat of detection. (U.S. Air Force photo by Staff Sgt. Codie Trimble)
An F-35A Lightning II assigned to the 421st Fighter Squadron taxis during Red Flag 20-1 at Nellis Air Force Base, Nev., Feb.5, 2020. (U.S. Air Force photo by R. Nial Bradshaw)
Maj. Nathan Sabin, taxis an F-35A of the 31st Test and Evaluation Squadron, a tenant unit at Edwards Air Force Base, Calif., before a test flight at Mountain Home AFB, Idaho, Feb 17, 2016. Six operational test and evaluation F-35s and more than 85 Airmen of the 31st TES travelled to Mountain Home AFB to conduct the first simulated deployment test of the F-35A, specifically to execute three key initial operational capability mission sets: suppression of enemy air defenses, close air support and air interdiction. (U.S. Air Force photo by J.M. Eddins Jr.)
An F-35A of the 31st Test and Evaluation Squadron, a tenant unit at Edwards Air Force Base, Calif., takes off on a test flight at Mountain Home AFB, Idaho, Feb 18, 2016. Six operational test and evaluation F-35s and more than 85 Airmen of the 31st TES travelled to Mountain Home AFB to conduct the first simulated deployment test of the F-35A, specifically to execute three key initial operational capability mission sets: suppression of enemy air defenses, close air support and air interdiction. (U.S. Air Force photo by J.M. Eddins Jr.)
The Lockheed F-35 "Lightning II" flies in formation with its namesake, the WWII-era Lockheed P-38 "Lightning" during formation practice flights at the Heritage Flight Training Course at Davis-Monthan AFB, Tucson, Ariz., Mar 4, 2016. (U.S. Air Force photo by J.M. Eddins Jr.)
An F-35A of the 31st Test and Evaluation Squadron, a tenant unit at Edwards Air Force Base, Calif., is parked on the flight line at Mountain Home AFB, Idaho, Feb 19, 2016. Six operational test and evaluation F-35s and more than 85 Airmen of the 31st TES travelled to Mountain Home AFB to conduct the first simulated deployment test of the F-35A, specifically to execute three key initial operational capability mission sets: suppression of enemy air defenses, close air support and air interdiction. (U.S. Air Force photo by J.M. Eddins Jr.)
Maj. Garret Dover prepares to taxi in an F-35A of the 31st Test and Evaluation Squadron, a tenant unit at Edwards Air Force Base, Calif., takes off on a test flight at Mountain Home AFB, Idaho, Feb 17, 2016. Six operational test and evaluation F-35s and more than 85 Airmen of the 31st TES travelled to Mountain Home AFB to conduct the first simulated deployment test of the F-35A, specifically to execute three key initial operational capability mission sets: suppression of enemy air defenses, close air support and air interdiction. (U.S. Air Force photo by J.M. Eddins Jr.)
A U.S. Air Force F-35A Lightning II assigned to the 388th Fighter Wing, Hill Air Force Base, Utah, soars overhead during RED FLAG-Alaska (RF-A) 20-3 at Eielson Air Force Base, Alaska, Aug. 7, 2020. All RF-A exercises take place in the Joint Pacific Alaska Range Complex over Alaska as well as a portion of Western Canadian airspace. (U.S. Air Force photo by Airman 1st Class Aaron Larue Guerrisky)
An F-35 Lightning II assigned to the 356th Fighter Squadron takes off to participate in an agile combat employment scenario at Andersen Air Force Base, Guam during exercise Cope North 21, Feb. 16, 2021. Engagements incorporating ACE concepts in “less than optimal environments” improve interoperability among forces and help allies and partners increase their capabilities, creating the greatest possible opportunity for long-term advancement of combined interests. (U.S. Air Force photo by Senior Airman Duncan C. Bevan)
F-35A Lightning II aircraft receive fuel from a KC-10 Extender from Travis Air Force Base, Calif., July 13, 2015, during a flight from England to the U.S. The fighters were returning to Luke AFB, Ariz., after participating in the world's largest air show, the Royal International Air Tattoo. (U.S. Air Force photo/Staff Sgt. Madelyn Brown)
F-35A Lightning IIs, perform an aerial refueling mission with a KC-135 Stratotanker May 13, 2013, off the coast of northwest Florida. The 33rd Fighter Wing at Eglin Air Force Base, Fla., is a joint graduate flying and maintenance training wing that trains Air Force, Marine, Navy and international partner operators and maintainers of the F-35 Lightning II. The F-35As are assigned to the 58th Fighter Squadron, 33rd FW. The KC-135 is assigned to from the 336th Air Refueling Squadron from March ARB, Calif. (U.S. Air Force photo/ Master Sgt. Donald R. Allen)
Capt. Andrew Olson, F-35 Lightning II demonstration team pilot and commander, performs aerial maneuvers during the Aero Gatineau-Ottawa Airshow in Gatineau, Quebec, Canada, Sept. 7, 2019. The demonstration team consists of 10 Airmen who showcase the world’s most technologically advanced fifth-generation fighter jet. (U.S. Air Force photo by Senior Airman Alexander Cook)
Staff Sgt. Quincy Robinson, a weapons load crew member from the 31st Test and Evaluation Squadron, signals to chock the tires of an F-35 Lightning fighter jet from the 53rd TES before arming and takeoff from Mountain Home Air Force Base, Idaho, Feb. 17, 2016. (U.S. Air Force photo/Tech Sgt. Brian Ferguson)
U.S. and Italian Air Force aircraft consisting of F-35 Lightning IIs, F-16 Fighting Falcons and a B-52 Stratofortress, fly in formation over the Adriatic Sea during exercise Astral Knight 19, June 4, 2019. Astral Knight takes place throughout various locations in Europe, involving more than 900 Airmen and supports the collective defense and security of NATO allies and U.S. forces in Europe. (U.S. Air Force photo by Staff Sgt. Joshua R. M. Dewberry)
An F-35A Lightning II, assigned to the 388th Fighter Wing at Hill Air Force Base in Utah, and an F-16 Fighting Falcon, assigned to the 18th Aggressor Squadron at Eielson Air Force Base in Alaska, fly over Denali National Park, Alaska, Aug. 17, 2020. The 388th FW joined the 354th Fighter Wing for RED FLAG-Alaska 20-3, the Pacific Air Forces' premier large force exercise. (U.S. Air Force photo by Tech. Sgt. Jerilyn Quintanilla)
Four F-35A Lightning IIs, assigned to the 388th Fighter Wing at Hill Air Force Base in Utah, fly in formation over Denali National Park, Alaska, Aug. 17, 2020. The 388th FW participated in RED FLAG-Alaska 20-3 during which fourth and fifth generation fighter aircraft trained side-by-side in the Joint Pacific Alaska Range Complex, the Department of Defense's largest instrumented training range. (U.S. Air Force photo by Tech. Sgt. Jerilyn Quintanilla)


U.S. Air Force LogoThe F-35 is the result of the Joint Strike Fighter program, which was intended to develop a single-engine, stealthy, multi-role fighter to replace an aging fleet of mission-dedicated airframes: the Air Force’s F-16 Fighting Falcon and A-10 Thunderbolt II and the Navy and Marine Corps’ F/A-18 Hornet and AV-8B Harrier II.
Although separate airframe variants were designed to meet specific needs of the various military services, all F-35 variants are primarily designed to infiltrate contested airspace; accurately deliver guided and conventional munitions; and collect, process and disseminate real-time reconnaissance while maintaining robust air-to-air combat capability at speeds above Mach 1.F-35A Lightning II aircraft receive fuel from a KC-10 Extender from Travis Air Force Base, Calif., July 13, 2015, during a flight from England to the U.S. The fighters were returning to Luke AFB, Ariz., after participating in the world's largest air show, the Royal International Air Tattoo. (U.S. Air Force photo/Staff Sgt. Madelyn Brown)Photo Details/Download Hi-ResSince Operation Desert Storm in 1991, the Air Force has conducted combat operations in a relatively uncontested air domain. As such the Air Force, joint force and the nation were not punished for an aging fleet, or for recapitalization and modernization efforts that cost more than planned, were delivered late, and didn’t always deliver the full needed capability.
F-35A Lightning II aircraft receive fuel from a KC-10 Extender from Travis Air Force Base, Calif., July 13, 2015, during a flight from England to the U.S. The fighters were returning to Luke AFB, Ariz., after participating in the world's largest air show, the Royal International Air Tattoo. (U.S. Air Force photo/Staff Sgt. Madelyn Brown)
However, peer adversaries China and Russia are rapidly expanding their aerial warfighting capabilities, supported by novel operational concepts and rapid weapons development timelines.
Because current and future warfighting environments will certainly be highly contested, the F-35 is a key component of an overall fighter-force design built to outpace those key competitors and win the high-end fight.Twenty-five F-35A Lightning IIs assigned to the 354th Fighter Wing prepare to launch during exercise Arctic Gold 21-2 April 7, 2021, at Eielson Air Force Base, Alaska. Arctic Gold evaluated the 354th FW’s ability to effectively generate aircraft and deploy personnel and cargo from across the wing. (U.S. Air Force photo by Senior Airman Beaux Hebert)Photo Details/Download Hi-ResMilitary and budgetary benefits of international cooperation are well represented in the F-35 program. Partner nations, including the U.S., United Kingdom, Canada, Netherlands, Italy, Denmark, Norway and Australia, are highly involved in the aircraft’s ongoing development. The F-35 has also been sold to Israel, Japan and South Korea.
Twenty-five F-35A Lightning IIs assigned to the 354th Fighter Wing prepare to launch during exercise Arctic Gold 21-2 April 7, 2021, at Eielson Air Force Base, Alaska. Arctic Gold evaluated the 354th FW’s ability to effectively generate aircraft and deploy personnel and cargo from across the wing. (U.S. Air Force photo by Senior Airman Beaux Hebert)
Use of a common weapons system among allies promotes an operational familiarity during coalition partner training and combat, while reducing the cost, time, training, manning and research and development of integrating dissimilar airframes of those allied nations.The Royal Australian Air Force, has committed to obtaining 72 F-35A aircraft to form three operational squadrons at RAAF Base Williamtown and RAAF Base Tindal, and a training squadron at RAAF Base Williamtown. The RAAF took delivery of its first operational F-35As in December 2018.
The first F-35As are scheduled to arrive at RAF Lakenheath, U.K., in late 2021. The base was selected to host the first U.S. F-35A squadrons in Europe based on very close ties with the Royal Air Force, existing infrastructure and combined training opportunities.Maj. Garret Dover prepares to taxi in an F-35A of the 31st Test and Evaluation Squadron, a tenant unit at Edwards Air Force Base, Calif., takes off on a test flight at Mountain Home AFB, Idaho, Feb 17, 2016. Six operational test and evaluation F-35s and more than 85 Airmen of the 31st TES travelled to Mountain Home AFB to conduct the first simulated deployment test of the F-35A, specifically to execute three key initial operational capability mission sets: suppression of enemy air defenses, close air support and air interdiction. (U.S. Air Force photo by J.M. Eddins Jr.)Photo Details/Download Hi-Res
Maj. Garret Dover prepares to taxi in an F-35A of the 31st Test and Evaluation Squadron, a tenant unit at Edwards Air Force Base, Calif., takes off on a test flight at Mountain Home AFB, Idaho, Feb 17, 2016. Six operational test and evaluation F-35s and more than 85 Airmen of the 31st TES travelled to Mountain Home AFB to conduct the first simulated deployment test of the F-35A, specifically to execute three key initial operational capability mission sets: suppression of enemy air defenses, close air support and air interdiction. (U.S. Air Force photo by J.M. Eddins Jr.)

Four F-35A Lightning IIs, assigned to the 388th Fighter Wing at Hill Air Force Base in Utah, fly in formation over Denali National Park, Alaska, Aug. 17, 2020. The 388th FW participated in RED FLAG-Alaska 20-3 during which fourth and fifth generation fighter aircraft trained side-by-side in the Joint Pacific Alaska Range Complex, the Department of Defense's largest instrumented training range. (U.S. Air Force photo by Tech. Sgt. Jerilyn Quintanilla)Photo Details/Download Hi-Res
Four F-35A Lightning IIs, assigned to the 388th Fighter Wing at Hill Air Force Base in Utah, fly in formation over Denali National Park, Alaska, Aug. 17, 2020. The 388th FW participated in RED FLAG-Alaska 20-3 during which fourth and fifth generation fighter aircraft trained side-by-side in the Joint Pacific Alaska Range Complex, the Department of Defense's largest instrumented training range. (U.S. Air Force photo by Tech. Sgt. Jerilyn Quintanilla)


Maj. Nathan Sabin, taxis an F-35A of the 31st Test and Evaluation Squadron, a tenant unit at Edwards Air Force Base, Calif., before a test flight at Mountain Home AFB, Idaho, Feb 17, 2016. Six operational test and evaluation F-35s and more than 85 Airmen of the 31st TES travelled to Mountain Home AFB to conduct the first simulated deployment test of the F-35A, specifically to execute three key initial operational capability mission sets: suppression of enemy air defenses, close air support and air interdiction. (U.S. Air Force photo by J.M. Eddins Jr.)Photo Details/Download Hi-Res
Maj. Nathan Sabin, taxis an F-35A of the 31st Test and Evaluation Squadron, a tenant unit at Edwards Air Force Base, Calif., before a test flight at Mountain Home AFB, Idaho, Feb 17, 2016. Six operational test and evaluation F-35s and more than 85 Airmen of the 31st TES travelled to Mountain Home AFB to conduct the first simulated deployment test of the F-35A, specifically to execute three key initial operational capability mission sets: suppression of enemy air defenses, close air support and air interdiction. (U.S. Air Force photo by J.M. Eddins Jr.)
While the F-35’s individual attributes and capabilities are formidable, it will never fight alone.
As the “operational quarterback”, the F-35A is designed to integrate across domains and forces. The Air Force of the future is being constructed not to fight alongside other services and allies, but with them as one combined force under Joint All Domain Command and Control.Future Air Force F-35s need to fully integrate with Navy and Marine teammates, F-35 international partner nations, and the ever-growing list of foreign military sales customers which also need capable, available and affordable F-35s to integrate across domains and forces.
The F-35 will be the fighter aircraft cornerstone for many nations – not just the U.S. Air Force – for decades to come.
To ensure relevance in a high-end fight against peer adversaries, the Air Force is pursuing rapid implementation of Block 4 modernization with Technical Refresh-3, or TR-3, hardware. The full Block 4 upgrades will improve the F-35As capabilities and mission effectiveness in contested environments, increase ability to prosecute targets, increase survivability, advance interoperability, and improve sustainment.
A Block 4 F-35A will be dual-capable and carry a full complement of precision-guided and net- enabled weapons, including: Small Diameter Bomb II; Laser Joint Direct Attack Munition (LJDAM); Advanced Anti-Radiation Guided Missile; Extended Range, or AARGM-ER; and up to six internal air-to-air missiles.The Lockheed F-35 "Lightning II" flies in formation with its namesake, the WWII-era Lockheed P-38 "Lightning" during formation practice flights at the Heritage Flight Training Course at Davis-Monthan AFB, Tucson, Ariz., Mar 4, 2016. (U.S. Air Force photo by J.M. Eddins Jr.)Photo Details/Download Hi-Res
The Lockheed F-35 "Lightning II" flies in formation with its namesake, the WWII-era Lockheed P-38 "Lightning" during formation practice flights at the Heritage Flight Training Course at Davis-Monthan AFB, Tucson, Ariz., Mar 4, 2016. (U.S. Air Force photo by J.M. Eddins Jr.)
01:57VIDEO  | 01:57|F-35A Test Operations
The Debrief: Weather and Contested Logistics
Global Exercises and Interoperability
Contested Logistics and Space Sustainment
Logistics on the Attack
Focus on AI Research and Development
The AI Test Force
Pushing the Envelope: AI's Evolution in Cyber Security
At Altitude: Col. Tucker Hamilton
BLUE: The Call to Change
Forging a Foundation: Basic Military Training
Recruiting a Path Forward
At Altitude: Brig. Gen. Christopher Amrhein-AFRS
Line of Effort: Mission Readiness
Line of Effort: Modernization
Line of Effort: Allies and Partners
Line of Effort: Taking Care of Our People
BLUE: Climate Action Plan
Into the future skies: The modernization throughout the Pacific
Growing tomorrow's leaders today
Virtual Reality reduces fuel emissions
Efficiency with modern materials
Senior Enlisted Advisor to the Chairman: Ramón “CZ” Colón-Lópe
Readiness through research
At Altitude: AF Chief Scientist Victoria Coleman
Researching human performance
Experimental mechanical engineering
Innovation in flight testing
At Altitude: CMSAF JoAnne Bass
Resilience: The glue of the forces
Resiliency Research Task Force studies issues affecting Airmen
True North clinic and caring for military training instructors
Unexpected mental health challenges
Challenges being in a new environment
FYSA: Bridging the Science Gap
STEM Initiatives
Grant program promotes innovator culture for DAF scientists
STEM professionals find diverse experiences, career opportunities in Project ARC
Airframe: B-21 Raider
Inter-American Allies
Command Interview: Gen. Jacqueline Van Ovost, USTRANSCOM
Dr. Victoria Coleman, Air Force Chief Scientist
Command Interview: Dr. Julie LaRow, AF Resilience
Airframe: MH-139A Grey Wolf
Command Interview: AF Chief Scientist Dr. Victoria Coleman
Inter-American Partnerships
Airman Aerials 2022
AMTU Eases Medical Process
Airframe: HC-130J Combat King II
Col. Jeff Pixley: The Evolution of BMT
DAF-MIT AI Accelerator
Emotional Intelligence Leads The Way Forward
Thunderbirds Laid To Rest; Legacy Lives On
AFSOC: A New Generation
Technology: Improving The Future Installation
We Train Like We Fight
Pushing The Envelope: Catalyzing Change
Engineering Future Leaders
Airframe: KC-10 Extender
Future Technology for Maintenance Now
The Debrief: Installation Proving Ground
Honoring The Candy Bomber
Future-proofing Installations
Airframe: MQ-9 Reaper
FYSA Podcast: Change Agents
Airframe: E-8C Joint STARS
At Altitude Podcast: Lt. Gen. James Slife / AFSOC
The Debrief Podcast: Hsu Innovation Institute
AFSOC Shifts Gears
Innovative Airmen Build Community
Human Capital
Airman Aerials 2021
Chuck Yeager's Lasting Legacy
Finely-Tuned, Hyper-Focused
Lt. Gen. Jim Slife and the AFSOC we need
FYSA: Agility Prime
At Altitude Podcast: Brig. Gen. Jeffery D. Valenzia and ABMS
FYSA with SECAF Frank Kendall
The Debrief Podcast: Artificial Intelligence
Under Secretary Jones preparing for pacing challenge, prioritizing potential
Focused on strategic competition, Air Force Secretary Kendall confident “One Team, One Fight” will lead to success
FYSA: Game On!
Hypersonics: Adding Speed to the Quiver
Dr. Mark Lewis: Hypersonics and The Need For Speed
The Debrief Podcast: Women's Initiative Team
Women's Initiative Team : Taking Initiative, Breaking Barriers
Valenzia: ABMS Will Deliver the "Decision Advantage"
Disruptive Technology: The Quantum Frontier
Airframe: The F-35A Lightning II
Virtual Aggression - Real World Response
21st Century Recruiting Maj. Gen. Thomas
Preparing For A Storm
Airframe: The F-117 Nighthawk
Negative for COVID
A Natural Partnership
21st Century Deterrence
A Case for Space
PODCAST: Maj. Gen. Thomas, AFRS
The New Normal
Commanding Crew-1
B-52: Global Strike Workhorse
Learning Some Cold Truths
Failing Forward
PODCAST: Maj. Gen. Higby
CMSAF Wright Looks Back
An Airman: First, Last, Always
Arctic Strategy Unveiled
PODCAST: Brig. Gen. Melancon
The Future Is Now
The A.I. Advantage
Everybody Looks Up
Red, White and Blast-Off
Mitigating Vulnerability
Answering the Call
Developing Resiliency
Last of the Raiders
The Disease Detectives
Sustaining Operations
Great Power Competition
Managing the Future Talent
Sustainable Competition
Toxic Leadership
Leadership Playground
Leader of the Pack
Training Revolution
Reconstructing Tyndall
Research, Acquire, Sustain, Repeat
Foundation for Arctic Security
Northern Vision
Arctic Challenge
25th SecAF Barbara Barrett - The First Interview
Engaging the Arctic
Based In Trust
Built From Scratch
Air Base 201
PODCAST: ASAF Henderson
Maintaining Success
Maintenance Solutions
Closing the Gap
Squadrons 'Beating Heart' of the Air Force
Guarding the Nation's Skies
Faces on the Hill
Building A Power Base
Gateway To Readiness
At Close Range
Looking Down Range
The New Deterrent
PODCAST: Civil Air Patrol
Airframe: The CV-22 Osprey
Operational Impact
Stewards of the Land
The Wright Stuff
SecAF Heather Wilson
Hacking Acquisitions
The Beyond
PODCAST: Dr. Will Roper
Character Takes Flight
Talent and Total Force
Effective Risk
Airframe: The B-17 Flying Fortress
Airframe: The Stearman Kaydet
Open Code
Time is of the Essence
Special Operations
Sustaining Balance
Airframe: The T-6A Texan II
Serving, Saving, Shaping
Airframe: The B-2 Spirit
Herding Health
21st Century Air National Guard
Airframe: The F-35A Lightning II
Persistent Engagement
Out of the Box
Airframe: The HH-60G Pave Hawk
Changing the Story
Joint Investigation
Flying Sergeants
The Agile 99th
Redefining History
Big Solutions From Small Places
The Lever of Culture
The Flying First
Sweet Taste of Freedom
Airframe: The T-38 Talon
Everybody's War
Squadrons 'Beating Heart' of the Air Force
Airframe: The KC-135 Stratotanker
Thawing the Middle
Airman To Be Awarded Medal Of Honor
In Perpetual Mission
Airframe: The C-5 Galaxy
Stop The Bleed, Save A Life
Finding Answers
Power Conductor
Speed and Fusion
Airframe: The EC-130H Compass Call
Staying On Track
Target Acquired
Airframe: The B-1B Lancer
Byte-Size Learning
Icon of Airmanship
U.S. Air Force Chief Scientist
Advancing At The Speed Of Relevance
Airframe: The B-52H Stratofortress
No Detail Too Small
The Disease Detectives
Forecasting Success
Citizen Cyber
Airframe: The C-17 Globemaster III
Care in the Air
Initial Defense
Pilot Exchange
Airframe: The F-16 Fighting Falcon
MAFFS Activate
The State of U.S. Strategic Command
Meet Under Secretary of the Air Force Matthew Donovan
Airframe: The E-3 Sentry (AWACS)
Airframe: The AC-130 Gunship
Where the Sun Never Sets
Firing Up the Force
Formation of Friendship
Airframe: The A-10 Thunderbolt II
Bombs Away
Pocketsize Multiplier
Providing Reinforcement
Airframe: The F-22 Raptor
A View from the Pacific
Creating Synthetic Teammates
Optimizing the Data Loop
Airframe: The F-15 Eagle
Higher Ground
Global Already There
AFOTEC Approved
Polar Airlift
Airframe: The U-2 Dragon Lady
An Innovative Collaborative
Care Loop
Orbital Airmen
Airframe: The SR-71 Blackbird
Battlefield Game Changer
Airframe: The F-35A Lightning II
No English, No Problem
The First Interview
Top Guns
ACC Flight Plan
The Night Watchmen
Guarding the Skies
Partner Airlift
Insatiable Demand
Priority Maintenance
Faces of Deterrence
Special Dedication
Pulling Ahead
The State of Air Force Medicine
Charged Up
Partners In Sight
Cadet Falconers Take Flight
F-4 Flies for Final Time
Farewell to the Chief
Signal Strength
A Beneficial Development
Recipe For Success
A Mighty Display of Democracy
The Aircraft Canaries
Island Sentinels
Atomic Exposure
Eyewitness To Infamy
Capturing Space
Point Of Recovery
Avoiding the Last Step
The Aggressors
Daily Deployed
Acquire, Assess, Exploit
Meals Readily Explained
Down the Hatch
Solo Mission
Whispers of Another War
Bonjour, Mon Nom Est...
Final Mission
Mental Warfare
Embrace the Paste
Boiling Point
Original Air Force One
Arctic Vigil
Farewell to the Force
The Man-Machine Interface
The Swat Team
Finding Closure
From Cradle To Space
Comfort in the Cold
House Of Pain
A Fighting Raven
Formation of a Legacy
Struck By The Thunderbolt
The Perfect Storm
A Solemn Mission
Remembering "Tack"
Aspiring To New Heights
Beyond the Blast Doors
Blood, Sweat, Perfection
An Original Rosie
Missing In America
"They Call Me Legend"
The Code
Forever An Airman
Forward From Vietnam
Digging For Answers
Behind the Hat
Santa By C-130
Civil War Moments
From Beyond the Flames
Hang In There
One Step Forward
Going Beyond
The Human Weapon
The Perfect Edge
The Hands Of Time
Standing in the Door
Lightning Strike
From the Ground Up
A Spartan Death
World-class Cyclist
3-2-1 Contact
Ties That Bind
Rescue Reunion
Trauma To Triumph
The 400
Hurricane Warning
'Katrina Girl' Found
A Look Back
C-17 Health Care
Aim High
Together
The Path
Military Brothers
Students of Fire
Mr. P
Bird's Eye View
Horseback Security
Finally Home
Frozen Tundra Warriors
Taking a Load Off
Standing Up
Full Steam Ahead
Maintaining Red Flag
Crossing Country Line
Press On
Taking It to the Woods
Best Friends
Rolling Thunder
Heavens to Betsy
Strong Survivor
Coaching Giant
Foreign Exchange
Cool School
Impossible Rescue
Quality Breeding
Common Ground
Spiritual Maintenance
The U.S. Space Force is pioneering advancements in space sustainment to enhance satellite durability and functionality in hostile environments.
As the U.S. Air Force confronts a new great power competition with near-peer adversaries, Airmen and Guardians are implementing future-focused strategies informed by institutional knowledge.
In this episode of ‘The Debrief,’ Lt. Gen. Tom Miller, deputy chief of staff for Logistics, Engineering and Force Protection and Col. Patrick Williams, the Air Force director of weather, explain the current security environment and weather Airmen’s role in Great Power Competition.
The Air Force is teaming up with the joint force, industry, academia, and allied/partner forces around the globe to stay ahead of near-peer competition.
Secretary of the Air Force, Frank Kendall, was flown by an autonomous X-62A VISTA, on May 2, 2024, at Edwards Air Force Base, California.
In the vast expanse of the digital frontier, where cutting-edge technology meets the demands of modern warfare, the United States Air Force stands at the forefront of innovation. Among its arsenal of advancements, artificial intelligence emerges as a pivotal force, shaping the future of aerial
Recent developments have markedly increased the scope of AI, enhancing tasks as routine as paperwork processing and as complex as the advancement of kinetic warfare technologies. The Air Force Test Center is at the forefront of the Air Force's exploration into AI and autonomy and leverages its vast
During the 2024 Air Force Association’s Warfare Symposium titled ‘Preparing for Conflict,’ Secretary of the Air Force Frank Kendall talked about the potential for a conflict with China or Russia during his opening remarks. This episode of ‘Pushing the Envelope’ explores how artificial intelligence
In this edition of BLUE, we take a look at how the Air Force is changing to meet the challenge of Reoptimizing for Great Power Competition. From how the service is structured to how service members will be trained and deployed, we examine what’s driving change, and how it impacts people.
Col. Tucker "Cinco" Hamilton, 96th Operations Group commander at Eglin AFB and Air Force AI test and operations chief, discusses the current state of AI within the Air Force, ongoing research, development and testing and AI’s place in building the force of the future.
As educational concepts and technology improve, it’s vital that the Air Force keeps up with the status quo to maximize the learning capability of its Airmen and set them up for success once they reach their operational units. To that end, Robinson has directed AETC to adapt and transition to a
Brig. Gen. Christopher Amrhein took over command of Air Force Recruiting Service in June of 2023 in the middle of the service's first recruiting shortfall in decades. Now he speaks to Airman magazine about changes needed to meet future recruiting goals.
Staff Sgt. Tori Glover, 319th Recruiting Squadron enlisted accessions active duty recruiter, talks on her experience as a recruiter and the challenges recruiters currently face.
The Air Force must recruit and retain the force we need to fly, fight, and win. Today’s Air Force answers our nation’s call with an experienced corps of full-time and part-time officers, enlisted Airmen, and civilians. We must transform those superb available forces into a force more fully capable
The Air Force must accelerate the modernization of key systems with an emphasis on the Department of the Air Force’s Operational Imperatives.
